# Java

### Day 656: Java start project

Creating a user auth system.

### Day 657: Java

Learning about service and controller layers.

### Day 658: Java and Clean Arhcitecture

Learn more about clean architecture, especially the separation of layers

### Day 659: Java

Learning about the different layers, service, repository, dao, etc.

### Day 662: Java - Design Patterns

I have a code that i want to refactor, the pattern that solves my problem is Chain of
Responsability

### Day 666: Java - Hibernate and JPA

I want to start learning Spring Boot, but first I need to check out these technologies

#### Day 672: Java - Spring Boot

I continue to learn about spring boot, the beauty of this framework continues to captivate
me.

#### Day 674: Java - Spring Boot Security

Start learning about spring security

#### Day 677: Java - Spring Boot Security

I learned how spring manages user authorization and authentication in the application.

#### Day 678: Java - Spring Security

Learn about authentication and authorization in spring

#### Day 679: Java - Spring Boot

Hibernate, Rules to JPA, start project with spring boot

#### Day 680: Java - Spring Boot

Test Service Layer and Persistence layer spring boot app

#### Day 682: Java - Many to many JPA

I have a problem with this type of relationship, I read that the DTO pattern can help me
to solve this problem and I am learning it.

#### Day 686: Java

I spent most of the day reading the clean code book.

#### Day 687: Java Spring Boot

Start learning Spring Actuator

#### Day 688: Java and Clean Code Book

Finding my way

#### Day 694: Java and Clean Code Book

I continue to read the Clean Code book and make examples same time,this book is very
interesting, I need to read this book more times.