#### Day 850 Git merge and code without tests

Git merge with code that has no test is a challenge, your code can be destroyed anywhere, today I
was trying to fix code with problems because of this, time marches on, and I don't can achieve.

#### Day 848 | 849

Yesterday was a bit overwhelming, I had my first deployments to production of two modifications that
I made in the code, one came out without problems but the second one had problems a rookie error was
the cause, today all day I have spent checking what went wrong, it is becoming very complicated to
work without test each modification that I make I am afraid that can cause problems I need to find
how to deal with this.

#### Day 847 Java | Graph API

Graph API is a monster, but if I can understand how its works I be better developer, need take it
easy and remember that I can do it.

#### Day 846 Java | API Meta

This day was a hard day I was learning about the public APIs that Meta has (Facebook, Instagram,
Messenger) it's a complicated topic, but I need to learn it, I fixed a bug at work for the moment I
just want to rest my brain.

#### Day 845 Typescript | NestJS | Swagger

Although I start to feel more comfortable using typescript it has some strange things that I don't
like very much, this weekend I went deeper in OpenAPI and Swagger I understand that the
documentation of my APIs is very important, and I need to develop good habits to that end.

#### Day 844 Typescript| NestJS

Today I was learned Typescript with NestJS framework, it's amazing how compare with spring the both
frameworks, I finish my first week how developer, I can finish all my tasks in the work.

#### Day 843 Spring/Java | Typescript/Express

Testing in Typescript it's hard, typescript does not make it easy, I don't want say hate typescript,
but it's difficult, well it's only a tool, and I need know how work with this tool.

#### Day 842 Spring/Java | Typescript/Express

Today I can fix my first bug, feel happy, write code is an art, a rare art, but I like, I like the
sensation of fighting with unknown problems, you never know how this will end.

#### Day 841 Spring | Java

Today I saw too much code with Java and Spring, the importance of the unities test is needed to
debug a problem and documentation is a great tool, please learn yourselves about these mistakes.

#### Day 840 Java

Today I learned to deploy an application into the payara server and my abilities with the CLI(
command line) are better each time, though I have followed problems with understanding large
applications, the scale is amazing and the complex is challenging, whatever I love make code, love
programming, this not stop me.

#### Day 839 Java

Today was a hard day, I need learn too many things, well need sleep better.

#### Day 838 Java | Typescript | Focused

I need a way to keep myself more focused, the best way how to organize my life and my career, and I
need learn a read and understand more code.

#### Day 836 Take it easy

I need to take my time, need how to know to organize my life and my developer career.

#### Day 835 Programmer

Today was learned that will work with projects monsters, and I like that I have the feeling that
need to study and practice more.

#### Day 834 First Day

My first day how programmer.

#### Day 833 Success

Today is the day, accepted my first offer job, well all my efforts are finally being completed. This
is just the beginning.

#### Day 832 SQL

Well, this day was good, start feeling comfortable with SQL, start to understand some important
concepts, my first job is near I can feel it.

#### Day 831 SQL | Docker | Ubuntu Server

I created a virtual machine in Oracle Cloud and configured it with docker, this virtual machine is
thinking of Docker containers, have here some databases, will continue with my learning to SQL and
Java/SpringBoot for the moment.

#### Day 830 Spring | SQL

Today it's a cold day, this day was bad for programming my fingers are sleeping, well today learned
about SQL and Spring/Java, I had some problems with copying one file of my computer to a docker
container, I hate windows, docker and windows does not have a good relationship.

#### Day 829 Spring | SQL

I discovered that I have a lake in SQL, well I need to continue learning about Spring and SQL.

#### Day 828 Spring | Test

I continue with my test thought I would finish the test today, but need to go to work tomorrow will
finish the test.

#### Day 827 SpringBoot | test

Today I spent all day answering a technical test for a company.

#### Day 826 SpringBoot

I Advanced in the lecture of my book, today I learned several SpringBoot things that I thought I
already knew, Well tomorrow need more practice in the English language.

#### Day 825 DSA | Spring | Book

Well, after being undecided for a few days about what will be my next step, I decided to start
reading a book about Spring Boot I like make deep dive in Spring, I will continue learning DSA and
solving exercises in Leetcode, while I learn more about Java/Spring and take my job search.

#### Day 824 DSA | Linked List

I can solve one problem that I had been worked for four days. this sensation that I feel is called
happiness, oh it's beautiful, well I need more practice let's do it better tomorrow.

#### Day 823 DSA | Oracle Cloud

Today only solved one problem on LeetCode about Linked List, all my other free time was taken up
fixed my Oracle Cloud account, and I can finish getting my instances, now I can deploy my API and
other apps, thank you, Oracle love you.

#### Day 822 DSA | Linked List

I continued with the development of my application, today I have some problems with the way to store
the data of the application, now I am safer that need good knowledge about data structures, and I
start speaking English in a discord channel too.

#### Day 821 Linked List Application

I start one project to create a basic program where I implemented all learning about Linked List,
browser history the name of the project and today apply to some jobs offer.

#### Day 820 DSA | Linked List

I'm Continuing to learn Linked List in LeetCode, today I solved some problems with Linked List and
did other problems with String and Arrays, tomorrow start with the design of my next API.

#### Day 819 DSA | Linked List

I solved three problems in LeetCode, I think that I achieved an understanding of how works the
Linked List, well I have more exercises to solve in the card of LeetCode, I am focused on Data
Structures and Algorithms.

#### Day 818 DSA | Linked List

Today I build my implementation of a Linked List, I solved two problems in LeetCode, learn a lot of
things about Linked List, each day is less painful than before the day.

#### Day 817 DSA | Linked List

I finished with the array part in LeetCode basic algorithms, today I solved five problems and start
with the Linked List part, my purpose is to finish all data structures in LeetCode and do a habit of
solving one problem every day.

#### Day 816 DSA

I continue to say data structures and algorithms it's hard, I don't know, I know I need more
practice, need more exercises, need do deep dive in data structures, well I hope that in some months
I laugh that this.

#### Day 815 DSA | The Will to Keep Winning

Today I solved only one problem in leetcode, I start to read the book The Will to Keep Winning, it's
interesting reading, I feel happy tomorrow is the new year and my first new year purpose is to get a
job in programming.

#### Day 813-814 DSA | Kotlin

Today and yesterday I was solving problems in leetcode, I learned a lot of things how in-place
algorithms, time complexity, kadane's algorithm, etc. I need more practice really.

#### Day 812 DSA | Arrays | Kotlin

I continue with data structures and algorithms, I start to learn Kotlin, for use with DSA, think
that is easier to solve problems with Kotlin than java, and I needed to take a break from Java.

#### Day 811 DSA | Arrays | Easy Level

Data Structures and Algorithms it's hard, think that need more study about the fundamentals of
algorithms design have many problems with the solution of easy algorithms, I need to search for a
book on this topic, more study, and a lot of practice.

#### Day 810 Data Structures and Algorithms | String | Stack

Today I solved three problems about String manipulation and Arrays, I'm starting to feel more
comfortable solving problems.

#### Day 809 Data Structures and Algorithms | String

I solved one problem of DSA, try to solve the problems applying Object-Oriented programming, for a
long time that not practiced DSA.

#### Day 808 Hacker Rank

I continue study Data Structures and Algorithms, need find a book with this topic, DSA it's hard and
maths I don't like much.

#### Day 807 Data Structures and Algorithms

Today I was studying data structures and algorithms, At the beginning of the year, I start to apply
to backend developers jobs, have an interview pending that wait to be successful.

#### Day 806 Java

My Files API project version 1.0 is released, I was work in this project during one month, I learn
very things about Backend Development and APIs, tomorrow start with the designed for my next API.

#### Day 805 Java

I start with the final documentation of my code, today was refactored the project and write
documentation for errors and endpoints.

#### Day 804 Java | Unit Test | Refactor

Today I was applied to refactor in some parts and components of my application.

#### Day 803 Java | Observer Pattern | WebHook

I studied the observer pattern today, also study what is a webhook, and create an implementation to
use in my project, I continue with my project.

#### Day 802 Java | AWS

I start learning the next services, AWS SQS and AWS Lambda to add more functionality to my project,
the first version 1.0 is now ready.

#### Day 801 Java | SQL | AWS

I learned about the data model in the SQL database, and how to make a model of the S3 Buckets in
AWS, write some pages in English about HTTP too.
