##### Day 950-951 Object-Oriented

This weekend I was study Object-Oriented Design, I don't know the object-oriented programming I
love, can be hours and hours writing code with this paradigm, try to apply design patterns, best
practices, writing test, practice TDD, and I am never boring.

##### Day 949 WebHooks

These days I was working a lot with web-hooks, I learn how to create code independent of these
webhooks and how do webhooks mock to simulate your functionality.

##### Day 948 More Deep Dive In The Java Virtual Machine (JVM)

This day's I was study hard about Java and JVM, I think that concepts are universal how, how works a
garbage collector, how works parallelisms and concurrency.

##### Day 947 Handling Files and Directories

I am creating a file system, the idea is to create a folder system where each month a folder is
created and the files are stored in that folder.

##### Day 946 Garbage Collector Deep Dive

This day and tomorrow I'm will learn about the garbage collector and how it works in the JVM
machine, I think that if I can be understood this concepts good, maybe can be written a better ,
and most efficient code.

##### Day 945 Love Docker

I am a Backend Developer, I like Java, Spring Boot, Kotlin, JavaScript, NodeJs, Scala, well
anything derived from the JVM, but things how Docker and Kubernetes I very like too.

##### Day 943 - 944 Weekend

I am studying different techniques to apply TDD in legacy code, in my work no project has test,
but in the same way it is very difficult to develop new features for fear of breaking code.

##### Day 942 High Performance

These have been days of performance evaluations and how we can be getter performance in our
services, we have latency problems and bad performance.

##### Day 941 Sick

Coding when you are sick is not pleasant just that I can tell you to take a break when that happens.

##### Day 940 Unknown Errors

Well, today we have some errors in production application, but as these problems came, so they
went, Magic? I don't think this

##### Day 939 Git Revert

Today I had to apply a git revert to a bad git merge, I have to learn better how to work with
Spring and dependency injection with static classes.

##### Day 938 Thinking With Databases

Today I learn about how works index in databases, this functionality is good but have your issues,
think in how model databases and create the best way to store data is a challenge, well I love
microservice and distributed systems.

##### Day 937 Finish a Good Book

Today I finish read the Java Design Patterns book, this book was amazing I learn a lot of things
about design patterns and how write good code, well I am excited why I start a read another book.

##### Day 936 Productivity Errors

Today there was a great moment of tension we had a productive downtime of about 3 hours, a
moment where nobody knew what was going on, in the end the problem was solved, although I think
that the implementation and handling of the error was not good.

##### Day 935 A Quiet Day

Not much to say a quiet day of coding, and I learned about deep copy and shallow copy in code.

##### Day 934 Difficult Task

Today I have a difficult task to do, fix the integration of an external API, external APIs
are hard to understand but when finish the day I did this task.

##### Day 933 Catching Errors

I think that have a great error component that send notifications when errors occur is a
necessary part of any program, in my work we do not have this component, I think that is my work
create it.

##### Day 932 Confusion on your way

Today something strange happened to me, I had some confusion about my career as a developer, I
didn't feel like writing code, but I worked my normal schedule, and I feel that I was productive,
well I took the afternoon to rest, and I think I'm a little better now.

##### Day 931 Working With Bytes

I have been learning how to manage data and files with spring and java these days.

##### Day 930 Working With Batch Operations

Batch operations are difficult, handle large amounts of data is amazing, well all in programming
is Data Structures and Algorithms this is real true.

##### Day 929 Template Method Design Pattern

Today I studied
the [Template Method Design Pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern),
this pattern is a design pattern that allows you to define the steps of an algorithm in an
operation, and allow sub-classes to override these steps without
changing the algorithm's structure, Oh GitHub Copilot is amazing.

##### Day 928 When things Go good

Well yesterday I was feel bad because all things went wrong me, but today is a new day, we can
finish the part on the application that handle a big lot of data, and I feel good with the result.

##### Day 927 When Things Go Wrong

We've had a difficult days at work, we have a big task that cannot complete, and this problem
stresses me out.

##### Day 926 Large Data Transactions

In the work, we need to handle a larges data transactions and in the same way we need to notify
the
Front-End these transactions the websockets use is a bad idea because the browser finished crashes
always, I need to read about these problems.

##### Day 925 Working With Bad Climate Conditions

Well today I was hot a very hot in my city, make code with bad weather is not good, I can solve
some issues in my work and make some things about my TODO list.

##### Day 924 Be Productive

I found it very helpful to take a break from coding and get my priorities in order today, and I was
very productive at work.

##### Day 923 Organizing my life

Well this day was good, I was able to organize my life and make it more efficient, I put my
Notion in order, I started a list of habits, organize the reading of my books, a list for the
web articles that I read, and I put order in my priorities.

##### Day 922 Performance Issues

This weekend I will spend it reading a book about Java performance at work we are having problems
with this part, I will also continue studying design patterns and if I get bored I will practice
some Kotlin.

##### Day 921 Regaining Courage

Today I have recovered my desire to code, maybe I just needed a little rest, when things go
wrong too often one loses the mood easily, well tomorrow I hope to code all day long.

##### Day 919 A Little Sad

In this day I was feel strange, I get up at 8:00 am this is late for me, always I get up at 6-7 am
and start the day make some code, study, watch code videos, etc. but in this day I was felt without
best wishes.

##### Day 918 Exploring The JVM Machine

Today I build a basic API with Scala, I was had curious about this language, my first
impressions are good Scala is a good programming language and the Functional Paradigm is
interesting.

##### Day 917 Working With External API

it is difficult, really difficult, and you need some time to learn due to the learning curve that
each external API has, well I think that only by researching and practicing more I will be able to
solve this.

##### Day 916 Design Patterns

I think I'm finally understanding the basics of design patterns, before I could not imagine how to
implement them, but in this last month I have been studying every day on this subject and little by
little I'm understanding I hope to finish knowing them all in this month of April.

##### Day 914 Kafka and Events

Today I was studied about Kafka and notification messages system, in the microservices' architecture
these notifications systems are very important, I love these architectures understand is a challenge
and work with them is beautiful.

##### Day 913 A Little Confused

At this moment I am was confused, I don't know how growth my knowledge and my personal career in
software engineering, I am currently reading a book of Design Patterns, but I don't know maybe need
learn another thing.

##### Day 912 Working Seriously

I have a lot of task to do in the work, well I think that the time that me spend learning design
patterns it's time to apply in my current work, I need write better code.

##### Day 911 Factory Pattern

Today was very confusing in my work to understand difficult things is difficult, but also the
pressure to finish things fast in these moments I wonder if programming is for me, well I hope this
will improve with the years.

##### Day 910 Builder Pattern

Today I was studying the builder pattern, in my work I achieve to advance in my tasks and can be
relaxing today.

##### Day 909 Free Day

After having some difficult days and a lot fo work I have relaxed a little this day I have coded a
little, but the desire to code has continued with me all day, guys after spending twenty hours
coding take a break.

##### Day 904 Having A Hard Time

I have had a couple of bad days at work, I seem to take a long time to solve the problems, I don't
like at all to fix one thing but another one has an error, I need to take it easy and see all
possible options.

##### Day 903 The Phrase If It Works Don't Touch It

lately we have had many problems at work with functionalities that work and after some changes they
no longer work correctly.