##### Day 1000 Days of Code

What can I say, my road has been long since I started on this journey, the truth is I didn't
know I would achieve all this, I still remember my first hello world line I had more than two
years ago, well let's keep writing code, let's go for two thousand days.

##### Day 998-999 Weekend Reading Books

Today I was finished the Grit book it's an amazing book, I learn a lot about the reasons
for the people starts anything and never complete these things, and advance in my another
book about Microservice.

##### Day 997 Facade, Factory Method and Singleton

This day I was studied these design patterns.

##### Day 996 Asynchronous or Synchronous

Async is not always the best solutions this day I verify, and I learn a great lesson, I still
have a lot to study about Microservice.

##### Day 995 A Large Method

I am thinking how refactor a large method this method has a lot of responsibilities, and I need
take off these responsibilities and pass to another classes.

##### Day 994 Thinking in Design

I think that each day I go understand better the Design Patterns, today I was studied Singleton,
Facade, and Factory Method.

##### Day 993 A Good Day

This day I learn a lot about messages driven architectures, concurrency, parallelism and another
things about Microservices and Object-Oriented programming.

##### Day 991-992

This weekend I do a little code, I was needed relax me and that;s was I did, but finally I do
code in Sunday at nine o'clock at the night.

##### Day 990 Pain

The pain in my body for so many hours in front of the PC is giving me problems, I need to solve
these pains.

##### Day 989 I am tired

This day I only sleep 3 hours, productive deployments are hard, I need a big break.

##### Day 988 Grit

I have been reading this book the last few days, with several of the ideas in this book I identify,
I think it is time to form my path as a developer and set some goals.

##### Day 987 A little sick

Today was a bad day, I am sick and only can make a little code.

##### Day 986 Thinking Asynchronously

We have a lot of changes in our architecture, our services need to be more flexible and
asynchronous, a lot of things to learn I am exciting.

##### Day 985 Bad Tutorials

Today I was learned that the large tutorials are bored or maybe only me I don't like now, but read
books and write code is very interesting.

##### Day 984 A little Boring

I don't know, today was a day's that I not want to do nothing.

##### Day 983 Taking Kafka to the Limit

I need learn more about how to create event driven architectures and how to use Kafka to create
these events, ours applications need to be scale.

##### Day 982 Kubernetes Unique IDs

Well I have a problem with Kubernetes I need to create three pods but each
Pod need to have a unique id and this id cannot be changed each ti the pods
are created, this is a good problem to solve.

##### Day 981 Socket Problems

Today we have an error in the websocket that it's used with mobile application,
I am tired we were working late.

##### Day 980 Kafka Power

It's amazing how kafka works, kafka can help us to create a distributed system
easy and fast, this day I had to use it to create events that stop process on
multiple Kubernetes pods.

##### Day 979 Mobile, Mobile

This weekend I was study Mobile Development all day.

##### Day 978 Coding With Pleasure

This day I was make code applying Test Driven Development, A long of time that
don't make code with tests

##### Day 977 A Lot of Work

This day was hard, I have a lot of tasks to do, tomorrow I will be able to finish
some of them.

##### Day 976 Work Without Quality

I am a Developer and try to write quality code the most of the time, but on some
occasions, any bug can be sent with the code have a quality team that test your
code is a great tool but if the company don't agree this , really the bugs are free.

##### Day 975 Data Binding

In android development the process of how the views and objects work together is
exciting, I believe it that mobile development is easy to learn but this is wrong,
It's a new world.

##### Day 974 Architecture Changes

In the work, we need to implement important architectural changes in some
Microservices, these things be a challenge.

##### Day 973 Android Design Patterns

The Android Development is good, I think that I can take some concepts that use and
applied in my Backend projects, the use of design patterns is amazing and the part
on how to separate concerns is beautiful.

##### Day 971-972 My First Android Application

##### Day 970 Android Java and Kotlin

In the mobile development, I was feel happy, making UI is good, applying design patterns
to make the best code and Object-Oriented programming is beautiful well I think that
continue with this path.

##### Day 968-969 Take IT easy

The best way to create good code is have a good sleep.

##### Day 967 Stress Moments

Today we have a stressful moment the production application started to fail, we can fix it
but need more changes.

##### Day 966 Don't Work Extra Hours

Well the title says it all, don't work overtime if you don't get paid or get some time off
afterwards.

##### Day 965 My First Mobile App

Great, this day I did my first mobile app, well this app is very basic, but I feel excite.

##### Day 964 Battling With Kafka

Kafka it's hard, well I think that you need time to learn all concepts to mastering it,
and this concepts need time to can be learned.

##### Day 963 Be Better Person

This day I feel productive, I read three chapters of my android book, practice android code
making and app, and finish my tasks in the work, will a weekend easy.

##### Day 962 200 Days Practicing English

I learn a little of English every day, all days I read in English, write in English, and play
with the Duolingo App, I also practiced today Android Development.

##### Day 960-961 Learning About Software Architecture

Yesterday was a hard day, we have deployed to production that failed, I am tired for the moment.

##### Day 959 Good Time

The world of mobile development is amazing, I write my first layouts, Text Views and buttons,
tomorrow I need focused on my work this day's will complicated with a lot of work.

##### Day 957-958 Start Learn a Little of Mobile Development

##### Day 956 Unique Messages Problem

I have the next problem, I need to be sure that one message is not available until is delivered, but
the problem is the messages is Async and when the operations start , I don't know if the message is
delivered OK or failed, need study better this problem.

##### Day 955 Continue Learning About Object-Oriented

These days I learn a lot of things about object-oriented, continue reading my book and practicing.

##### Day 954 Understanding Object-Oriented Design

The object-oriented design it's hard, think how the classes must be relationships don't easy task.

##### Day 953 Abstraction and Encapsulation

Today I learned that I can use abstraction and encapsulation to make my code more readable and
easier to understand.

##### Day 952 New Book

Today I start read the Object-Oriented Analysis and Design book, the first chapters of this book are
amazing.