### Day 2000: 2 Thousand Days of Code

Today I achieved 2000 days of coding. Really, this is a big milestone for me. This has been a good and large travel, but it is only the start of the journey. Amazing things are coming like C, Storage Systems, Java Advanced Topics, Concurrency, Networking, Test-Driven Development, Performance, and more fun. 

### Day 1999: Java Reflection Proxy

Today I learned how to implement the `Proxy` pattern in Java. A proxy object is like a wrapper that adds some extra functionality like logging, caching, etc., operations to a class without modifying the class itself. The main proxy idea is to have a class that contains an instance of another class by composition. Next, when the proxy class receives a request, it executes the extra functionality and then delegates the execution to the real object. Proxy + Reflection is a powerful technique. You can easily wrap any type of class with a proxy and reflection.

### Day 1998: Reading

Today I completed to read the **Tidy First** book. This lecture was good, I learned some tips and tricks to write better code and also I understand a little more why most of the times the company does not care of their code bases and why is most important for the company write fast code to deliver to the market that write good quality code.

### Day 1997: Reading Multiple Annotations

Today I learned how to mark a method with multiple annotations of the same type. To read all the annotations from a method, you can use the `getAnnotationsByType` method; this method returns an array of annotations or an empty array if there are no annotations. One example of having the same annotation multiple times in a method is when you want to schedule the method execution at some different frequencies.

### Day 1996: Reading Fields Java Annotations

Today I learned and practice how to know if a Field is marked with some annotation and how to read the annotation for the Field. This pattern of mark fields from a class with an annotation and next execute some specific behavior if the fields has X annotation is frequently used in mappers and builders, for example when you want to serialize/deserialize a JSON into a Java object or when you want to build a SQL query from a Java object. Also I continue learning C.

### Day 1995: Continue with Reflection and C Code

Today I continue studying reflection, this time I build an application that read the parameter methods `Annotations` and execute the method with their parameters with Reflection like building a dependency graph, for example you have a method A that takes the result of method B as a parameter, so with Reflection and Annotations you can generate a dependency graph and execute a method, next pass the result method as a parameter of other method with Reflection. This is very useful when you want to execute N numbers of tasks in some order and you want to avoid calling directly it. In other topics I created a basic C program to list all my current local network address from my Mac. I started to lean C because I want to understand low-level concepts like working and manipulate bytes. 

### Day 1994: Implementing Retry Method Feature With Reflection

Today I created an annotation called `RetryOperation`, this annotation can be used in methods that you want to retry their execution if an exception occurs in the method execution. The annotation have some annotation elements that you can customize to increase the number of retries or the delay between the retries, the main is annotate a method this annotation and with Java reflection, read the annotation elements, create code logic for the retry in case of an error and invoke the method with Reflection. 

### Day 1992-93: Reading Java Annotations with Reflection

During these two days I continue learning about Reflection. This I am learning how to read annotations from `Fields`, `Methods` and `Class` using reflection. I started to work on a code exercises in which I analyze all the classes inside a X java package to find which classes and methods are noted with some special Annotations, the idea is when a Class and Method have X annotation, we execute the method from the class with Reflection. The last technique is very useful when you want to initialize something in your code automatically like database connections, create caches, create a server connection, etc. I am having issues with this code exercises because the code cannot parse correctly a package name in String to a valid Java `URI` object. 

### Day 1990-91: Continue with Reflection

Over the Weekend I continue studying Reflection in Java. This time I created an implementation of a test framework, with some basic functionalities like analyzing all the methods declared in a Test class. First the test framework review all the methods declared in the class, every method that starts with a prefix `test` is considered a test method, and also the framework supports others test specified methods like `beforeClass`, `beforeEach` and `afterClass`. I have fun implementing this framework and know I understand how testing frameworks like `Jupyter` works.   

### Day 1989: Learning to Analyze Methods with Reflection

Today I learned how to analyze the method from a X class using reflection. The Java reflection API allows us to analyze the methods from a class with a good interface, for example with the `Class.getMethods()` method we can get all the methods from a class, with the `Method.getName()` we can get the method name. I created a basic code logic to validate if a data class (A class that needs to have only getters methods for the class fields) is correct every field have a getter method, with the code logic: `String getterName = "get" + field.getName().substring(0, 1).toUpperCase() + field.getName().substring(1);` we can build the getter method name for a field.

### Day 1988: Configuration File Parser

Today I did a little code exercise in which I create a `ConfigurationCreator` class with one method to create a config object from a file. The idea is to read a .cfg file, next use reflection to create a Java object with the .cfg file information. I used a Java `Scanner` to read the file information, also I created some unit tests to validate the code.

### Day 1987: Reflection Exercise

Today I continue studying reflection with a code exercise. I needed to add the logic to serialize an array of objects into a JSON string. I liked the final result because I could reuse the previous code created to serialize a single object into a JSON string.

### Day 1986: Arrays and Reflection

Today I learned how to detect if a `Field` from a `Class` is an array, also I implemented some code to read the values from the array one-by-one and at the end create a string JSON representation of the array. We can review if a `Field` is an array with the next code: `field.getType().isArray()`.

### Day 1985: JSON Serializer and Calculate Space Object

Today I continue learning and practicing Reflection with two exercises, one was to create a JSON serializer algorithm that takes any `Object` and serialize into a JSON. The algorithm is simple, and works with primitives values like `int`, `boolean`, `char`, `short`, etc. Also I work into another exercise in which I calculate the memory that an object consumes in `bytes` in memory using Reflection. Sometimes I feel a little bored about Reflection, but I know that I need to know it for my current project.

### Day 1984: Reading Class Fields with Reflection

Today I learned and practice how to read the fields of a class using Reflection. With Reflection we can read the declared fields of a class in Runtime with their current values, I discovered that the JVM generates some special fields called **Synthetic** fields for internal class purposes, for example when we have a nested class, that class will have a synthetic field that points to the outer class. I also discovered that the JVM generates a field called `this$0` that points to the outer class, this field is used to access the outer class fields from the inner class. 

### Day 1983: Reflection & Dependency Injection

Today I practice Reflection creating a little program that instantiate a class using Reflection, the class have as a dependencies multiple classes added as parameters and also that parameter classes can have other dependencies, so the idea was use Reflection and recursion to create an object for that class with all their dependencies. I am in the 1983 day learning computer science, please listen the next song called **1983** really is called like that https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j51LRUjIdnE

### Day 1982: Continue with Reflection

Today I continue studying about Reflection. I created a Java application that analyze any object that you send as a parameter, from this object I extract the type, name, package name and also if the objects implements n number of interfaces, also I discovered that some IDE plugins use Reflection to show to the user the `Class` information when hover a class name, is interesting how Reflection in Java is used for a lot of tasks.

### Day 1981: Java Reflection

Today I started to study and refresh my Java Reflection knowledge. In my current project we have a lot of reflection code and also Reflection is a lot used on the project, I feel a little lost when read this code, and also lost while I attempt to understand how the code works, for that reason I started a Udemy course about Reflection in Java.

### Day 1980: Importance of the Last Node Problem in Heap Trees

Today studying about Heaps, I understand why the Last Node is very important for heaps and why an array is the best data structure to implement it. The last node of the heap is crucial for operations like deletion and insertion, for deletion we always move the last node as the new heap root and for insertion we always add the new node as the last node. The last node is very important to meet the heap property.

### Day 1979: Heap Binary Trees

Today I studied about the Heap Binary Tree data structure. First I read the theory of this data structure behind the insertion and deletion operations, I learned that this two operations have a `O(log N)` time complexity. Looks like that Heap trees are a good choice when you need to execute for example some operations or have the as a first element the element with the highest priority, also I read about *The last node problem* and how the binary tree trust on this operation to implement the others. Tomorrow I will continue studying this DS, Tress and recursion comes together and I have low knowledge with both concepts.

### Day 1977-78: Studying and Break

Yesterday I took a break from coding, I just read a few pages from the Tidy First book. Today I practiced with a Binary Search Tree code exercise. I had problems to solve the problem by myself, in the end I had to look for the code solution after several failed attempts. I need to practice more with recursion and trees.

### Day 1976: Code Exercises and Java Question of the Week

Today I continue solving code exercises related with Binary Search Trees, in other topics I answer the question of the week about how can we read the content of a file in Java. Answering these questions is a good exercises to learn and master concepts, maybe you think that well I know how to read a file in Java, but you are not aware about the performance implications of the different ways to read that file.

### Day 1975: Continue with Binary Search Tree

Today I continue studying Binary Search Trees. I solved some problems related with data structure and also I completed the book chapter about that. Tomorrow I have the plan to create a blog post about Java.

### Day 1974: Writing Deletion Operation for Binary Search Tree

Today I started to study and implement the deletion operation for the Binary Search Tree. For the moment I am having problems to understand how the operation works, the operation is very complex because we need to consider multiple scenarios to delete a node from the tree. I will need to continue studying this operation tomorrow.

### Day 1973: Binary Search Tree

Today I started to study this data structure in my DSA book. I am happy with my progress, I could implement the search and insertion operations from scratch only reading the logic steps from the book. Really practice is the key to master DSA, recursion, algorithms and all these complicated stuff. Tomorrow I have the plan to continue working with the Binary Search Tree currently I am stuck to write the method to `print` all the node values by level.

### Day 1972: Practicing Linked List Algorithms

Today I practiced solving some Linked List problems. I started the part of the book in which we review the Binary Search Tree but before start to review it, I want to solve some problems with the first Node-based data structure learned in the book.

### Day 1971: Java `wait()` and `notify()`

Today I studied this two Java methods to execute concurrent code. The `wait()` method blocks the current thread execution until another thread calls `notify()` in the same object. The `notify()` method wakes up the first thread that called `wait()` in the same object. Imagine that you are waiting to receive some data from a server, you start to read the data in a separate thread to avoid block the main application thread, but the data is not available yet, so you trigger `wait()` to tell the current thread to wait until the data is available, when the data is available the server thread calls `notify()` to wake up the thread that is waiting for the data. I read that these technique used in Java is very old, but in my work we use this technique with concurrent code.

### Day 1970: Continue learning about Concurrency

Today I continue with my study of concurrency with Java. For the moment I am practicing with execute some Java processes in separated threads, accepting connections from multiple clients to my application and learning how to manage these clients concurrently.

### Day 1969: Java Threads, Concurrency and Sockets

Today I practiced creating a Java application that listen for incoming connections through a `Socket` connection. The project idea was easy, created a Java application server that listen for incoming client connections, each client connections needs to be operated in a separate thread to avoid block the main thread, when the client send a message to the server, the server process this message and send it to a `Priority Queue`, next the message will be send to different clients connected. Work with threads and concurrency in Java is a little bit difficult, for the moment I am having problems to understand how to create concurrent code like this because I am not familiar with this type of code.

### Day 1968: Linked List Code Exercises

Today I continue developing some common linked list operations like print all the values in a list, reverse a linked list, get the last node of a linked list, etc. These exercises are a very good way to practice with the Linked List and Doubly Linked list data structures, I had some problems to understand the logic behind the reverse a linked list algorithm, but after some time I could understand how it works. I will continue practicing with these exercises tomorrow.

### Day 1967: Double Linked List

Today continue studying the Linked List data structure, I started to study the **Double Linked List**. This data structure is a good choice when you need to delete and insert elements frequently because offers a `O(1)` time complexity for insert an elements in the start and end to the list and for delete an element requires a `O(N)` steps. I will continue studying this data structure tomorrow.

### Day 1966: Linked List

Today I started to study about Linked List in my DSA book. This time I am doing a different approach about write the Linked List operations like read, search and insert from myself. I want to to build these stuff from myself to understand how to manipulate a Linked List. For the moment I wrote the `read` and `search` operations, but I am having some problems to understand how to write the `insert` operation.

### Day 1965: Continue Studying DSA

Today I continued studying DSA reading the book. I solve some exercises in which we first sort an array and next we need to perform some action in the sorted array, which this technique I could to solve the problems with a `O(n log N)` time complexity. I also used a Greedy approach to solve some problems, the Greedy approach is a technique to solve problems in which we make the best choice at the moment, without thinking about the future.

### Day 1964: QuickSort and QuickSelect

Today I studied the QuickSort and QuickSelect algorithms. I started to study the logic behind the two algorithms an next implement them with Java code, the problem is I could not understand in a good way both algorithms. Recursion is a problem for me because write and read recursion code continues be a hard task for me. I will need to continue practicing these algorithms to understand how they work.

### Day 1963: Storage Virtualization RAID 0

Today I studied about the RAID storage virtualization technique creating Java code to simulate the RAID 0 configuration. For the moment I have an issue while the code is attempting to read the metadata file with the file from information. I am using an approach about storage the file metadata in a physical file using a Java `Serialization` class, but I am having problems at the moment to deserialize the file into a Java object.  

### Day 1962: DSA and Java SE 17 Test

Today I continue studying my DSA book, I am learning how implement the QuickSort algorithm, for the moment I am not understanding much because this algorithm is divided into three different main steps, first step is to find the **pivot** in the array to be sorted, second is divide the array by the half and use recursion to sort this half of the array and divide by the half again the same same and is the same for the other half of the original array. Really this algorithm is confuse at the start. In other topics I did the Java SE 17 Skill IQ from PluralSight to measure my Java 17 skills, I got an average score, so that means I have good knowledge about how to work with Java 17 but I will need to improve to reach the  **over average** or **expert** score.

### Day 1961: Recursion and Dynamic Programming Exercises

Today I practiced recursion and dynamic programming solving some exercises. For the moment these way of solve problems using recursion and Dynamic programming is not making click in my head. Sometimes is really difficult to understand how recursion works, how the functions calls are storage in the stack call and how these function calls are called, and well how the result is build in the stack call. I will need to continue practicing more these techniques.

### Day 1960: Dynamic Programming

Today I studied one of the hardest concepts in computer science that is **Dynamic Programming**. Dynamic Programming is a technique to solve problems by breaking them into smaller sub-problems and storing the results of these sub-problems to avoid solving them multiple times. The main idea is to solve the problem dividing this problem into sub-problems and store the results of the sub-problems in some place to avoid call the same sub-problem multiple times. Memoization is a common technique in dynamic problem to memorize the sub-problems results. I did some code exercises to refactor recursion functions and apply DP to improve the algorithm efficiency.

### Day 1959: RAID Virtualization Technology

Today I learned about RAID Virtualization Technology. RAId is a technology that allows to combine multiple flash-drives or HDDs into one logical disk. Imagine that you have 10 SDDs disk and you want to combine them into one disk, so using RAId you can combine them into 1 disk and the host system like a PC or server looks only one disk. RAID offers another important features and have some different configurations like `RAID 0`, `RAID 1`, `RAID 5`, `RAID 6` and `RAID 10`(I don't know yet if a configuration is the correct word). These different configurations offers different features and have different performance capabilities. If you want to have data replication you can use `RAID 1`, if you want to have faster write/read operations you can use `RAID 0`, all these things are new for me are interesting because is more focused on computer science topics and not learn a new framework to build something.

### Day 1958: Why Recursion is So Hard?

Today I continued practicing recursion with some exercises. I completed the unique paths problem, I can discover the base case and start the algorithm but to completed it, I needed some help from Google. The main problem with this recursion problems is that the function needs to call itself multiple times, with multiple parameters and the return value of the function is the result of one of the previous function. This is very difficult to understand for me, but well my approach to continue learning recursion is more practice, I will need to continue solving more problems, creating recursion algorithms to master this skill.

### Day 1957: Continue Practicing Recursion

Today I learned one of foundations recursion principles. The principe is if your functions needs to return a value, you need to return a value in the base case and in any return statement within the function. I discover this while writing the flatten nested arrays function. I needed to return an `[]` in the base case and in the another return statements concatenate the result of the previous function call with the current value. Also It's very important to return always the same type of element in non-static coding languages like JavaScript, because if you return a `number` in the base case and a `string` in another return statement, you will get an error. I want to continue practicing recursion for more some time because I feel that I need to practice more to understand how recursion works.  

### Day 1955 & 56: Recursion Functions that Generates Values

Over the weekend I practiced recursion, focusing on recursive functions that generate a result like a list and then add items to that list in consequence executions. Yes, I continue with not understanding this type of functions well, I continue with problems about how to merge the return in a recursive function with the next executions, especially when the recursive function returns more than one value, is very strange to me, looks like some dark magic. But the good news is that with every day of practice it looks less complicated. Practice == mastery.

### Day 1954: Debugging Recursion

Today I spend most of my time debugging Recursion functions. I am using the VSC debugger to understand how the recursion works, One of my main current recursion problems is understand how the results are build in the recursion stack, the top-bottom approach is easier to understand rather than the bottom-up approach. Also the concept about solve sub-problems and combine the results to get the final solution is a little bit difficult to understand.

### Day 1953: Top Down Recursion

Today I learned and practiced about the top-down recursion technique. This technique looks like magic to me, the idea is to start with the final solution and divide the problem into smaller sub-problems. Sounds crazy think about the function is already written and you only need to implement the sub-problems. I did some code exercises t practice this Recursion technique, I will need to continue practicing this technique tomorrow because continues looks like a magic thing for me.

### Day 1952: Recursion Repeatedly Execute

Today while studying recursion, I learned that recursion functions can be categorized in some categories. The idea about identify the category of a recursion function is to know how to read it and write it. The **Repeatedly Execute** is a recursion function in which in each function call a task is performed, maybe you want to print something into console, increment a counter or any type of other things.