README.md, before:

# My Journey to Become a Software Engineer

In this repository I will keep the progress fo my career as a software engineer, I think it is very
important that we all have some record of our progress, when I started programming I wanted to have
a record to go in the future and see what decisions I have taken and this repository is the result
of that record.

### Programming Change My Life

##### Day 1270-71 Continue Reading

In the weekend, I continue reading the security engineering book, I am in the last part of the book. It's amazing all
the knowledge acquired, well I see a lot of things differently with this reading. Really write security is important how
apply the correct design itself.

##### Day 1269 DI In Python

Today I refactor some python code to use DI (Dependency Injection), because I have a lot of problems with testing the
code, python how an interpreted language can mock anything in the code with some trick. DI make the code easier to test.

##### Day 1268 Stressed

Today I have some stress in my day. I don't know how to execute python task in another thread like Java, I need to
discover this step, also how to do TDD with Python in a good way. I was stressed a lot of learning unit testing with
Python.

##### Day 1267 Software Development Flow

Today I continue to designing my best software development flow. When I start any type of project, I need to apply to
TDD in all the software development process, also I recommend that you create the documentation at the same time and any
type of diagram that you want to add to the project. Please improve the GitHub Readme, create good commits and create
documentation about the process.

##### Day 1266 Forgetting Logs

When you write any code, method, class or process, please don't forget to add some logs. The importance of add logs in
any application is great, because all the time you need know what do you the application, and well when you have debug
production problems you will suffer a lot when trying to discover where is the issue. Trust me stop and add logs in the
key parts of the application, important logs.

##### Day 1263,64,65 Reading

I continue reading the Security Engineering book, really I need to finish this book, I have a deadline to April 1 to
finish this lecture, I don't have desire to continue reading this book, but I need to finish. When I finish this book my
next goal is finish my RedHat Developer Certification.

##### Day 1262 Java 20

Today I review the new features in Java 20, I have a lot of problems with try to execute the code in IntelliJ, I need to
do some configurations steps before compile and run the code. Also, I continue reading the Security Engineering book.

##### Day 1261 Scoped Values

Today I watch the Java First, Java Always YouTube video, well Java is doing a great a job with involve the community
with this type of videos. I learn about the Scoped Values JEP is interesting how Java continue to evolving and I think
that Scoped Values is a great tool in concurrency problems I remember my errors with some threads executions and modify
variables values with wrong data.

##### Day 1258-59-60 CQRS

These days I have learned about the CQRS Microservice Pattern and build a basic application following a YouTube
tutorial. I found my focus again I stop to learn Scala for the moment and continue to improve my Java skill, 2023 is the
year in which I need to obtain my Java Developer Certification by Oracle, and I need to continue to practice Java.

##### Day 1256-1257 Mac

Today I start with the macOS ecosystems, I buy a MacBook Air my first impressions are great, because I can start to
install all my Java ecosystem with the terminal using SDK man I spend my time today customize my laptop, and write some
basic Java code. The M1 apple chip looks like fine, IntelliJ run fast, I hope that this laptop have a great performance
and use in my future learnings.

##### Day 1255 Grit

I continue reading my security book, but I need to say this I hate this book now, is very large, very, very large, I
don't want to continue to reading anymore, but I know that all this knowledge acquired with this book is a good thing
for my software developer career in this point the Grit is coming. I have two options, to finish my book or leave it.
Well, I decide this tomorrow.

##### Day 1254 SSH

Today I read the documentation about SHH and I need to remember how the certificates works, also I notice that I am
putting less attention in my work, this is bad because I need to upgrade my skills rather than downgrade them. I need to
focus on my details and remember why is the reason that I am a programmer.

**Day 1 - 50 HTML - CSS - Javascript**  [here](./day0-50.md)</br>
**Day 51 - 100 Javascript** [here](./day51-100.md)</br>
**Day 101 - 150 Javascript** [here](./day101-150.md)</br>
**Day 151 - 200 Javascript** [here](./day151-200.md)</br>
**Day 201 - 250 Javascript and start React JS** [here](day201-250.md)</br>
**Day 251 - 300 Javascript - React JS** [here](day251-300.md)</br>
**Day 301 - 350 Javascript - React JS and start Node JS** [here](day301-350.md)</br>
**Day 351 - 400 Start learn MERN stack** [here](day351-400.md)</br>
**Day 401 - 450 MERN stack - Docker - Typescript - TDD** [here](day401-450.md)</br>
**Day 451 - 500 Object Oriented Programming** [here](day451-500.md)</br>
**Day 501 - 550 Data Structures and Algorithms** [here](day501-550.md)</br>
**Day 551 - 600 Java**</br>
**Day 601 - 650 Java** [here](day601-650.md)</br>
**Day 651 - 700 Java and Spring Boot** [here](day651-700.md)</br>
**Day 701 - 750 Java | Spring Boot | MySQL** [here](day701-750.md)</br>
**Day 751 - 800 Java | Spring Boot | MySQL** [here](day751-800.markdown)</br>
**Day 801 - 850 Java | Spring Boot | OCI** [here](day801-850.md)</br>
**Day 851 - 900 Java | Design Patterns** [here](day851-900.md)</br>
**Day 901 - 950 Java | Design Patterns** [here](day901-950.md)</br>
**Day 951 - 1000 Java | Design Patterns** [here](day951-1000.md)</br>
**Day 1001 - 1050 Java | New Job** [here](day1001-1050.md)</br>
**Day 1051 - 1100 Java | Python | Cloud Computing** [here](day1051-1100.md)</br>
**Day 1101 - 1150 Java | Containers | Cloud Native Development | OpenShift** [here](day1101-1150.md)</br>
**Day 1151 - 1200 Java | Containers | Python | Security** [here](day1151-1200.md)</br>

Commit message:

day1272
Command Design Pattern Python

README.md, after:

# My Journey to Become a Software Engineer

In this repository I will keep the progress fo my career as a software engineer, I think it is very
important that we all have some record of our progress, when I started programming I wanted to have
a record to go in the future and see what decisions I have taken and this repository is the result
of that record.

### Programming Change My Life

##### Day 1272 Command Design Pattern

Today I practice the Command design pattern in Python with unit testing, I do a basic application in which apply the
command pattern. I need to practice a lot OOP with Python, Python is a great language but, for build big applications
you need to apply OOP principles to do quality code I think, build a basic script is not the same that build a
Microservice.

##### Day 1270-71 Continue Reading

In the weekend, I continue reading the security engineering book, I am in the last part of the book. It's amazing all
the knowledge acquired, well I see a lot of things differently with this reading. Really write security is important how
apply the correct design itself.

##### Day 1269 DI In Python

Today I refactor some python code to use DI (Dependency Injection), because I have a lot of problems with testing the
code, python how an interpreted language can mock anything in the code with some trick. DI make the code easier to test.

##### Day 1268 Stressed

Today I have some stress in my day. I don't know how to execute python task in another thread like Java, I need to
discover this step, also how to do TDD with Python in a good way. I was stressed a lot of learning unit testing with
Python.

##### Day 1267 Software Development Flow

Today I continue to designing my best software development flow. When I start any type of project, I need to apply to
TDD in all the software development process, also I recommend that you create the documentation at the same time and any
type of diagram that you want to add to the project. Please improve the GitHub Readme, create good commits and create
documentation about the process.

##### Day 1266 Forgetting Logs

When you write any code, method, class or process, please don't forget to add some logs. The importance of add logs in
any application is great, because all the time you need know what do you the application, and well when you have debug
production problems you will suffer a lot when trying to discover where is the issue. Trust me stop and add logs in the
key parts of the application, important logs.

##### Day 1263,64,65 Reading

I continue reading the Security Engineering book, really I need to finish this book, I have a deadline to April 1 to
finish this lecture, I don't have desire to continue reading this book, but I need to finish. When I finish this book my
next goal is finish my RedHat Developer Certification.

##### Day 1262 Java 20

Today I review the new features in Java 20, I have a lot of problems with try to execute the code in IntelliJ, I need to
do some configurations steps before compile and run the code. Also, I continue reading the Security Engineering book.

##### Day 1261 Scoped Values

Today I watch the Java First, Java Always YouTube video, well Java is doing a great a job with involve the community
with this type of videos. I learn about the Scoped Values JEP is interesting how Java continue to evolving and I think
that Scoped Values is a great tool in concurrency problems I remember my errors with some threads executions and modify
variables values with wrong data.

##### Day 1258-59-60 CQRS

These days I have learned about the CQRS Microservice Pattern and build a basic application following a YouTube
tutorial. I found my focus again I stop to learn Scala for the moment and continue to improve my Java skill, 2023 is the
year in which I need to obtain my Java Developer Certification by Oracle, and I need to continue to practice Java.

##### Day 1256-1257 Mac

Today I start with the macOS ecosystems, I buy a MacBook Air my first impressions are great, because I can start to
install all my Java ecosystem with the terminal using SDK man I spend my time today customize my laptop, and write some
basic Java code. The M1 apple chip looks like fine, IntelliJ run fast, I hope that this laptop have a great performance
and use in my future learnings.

##### Day 1255 Grit

I continue reading my security book, but I need to say this I hate this book now, is very large, very, very large, I
don't want to continue to reading anymore, but I know that all this knowledge acquired with this book is a good thing
for my software developer career in this point the Grit is coming. I have two options, to finish my book or leave it.
Well, I decide this tomorrow.

##### Day 1254 SSH

Today I read the documentation about SHH and I need to remember how the certificates works, also I notice that I am
putting less attention in my work, this is bad because I need to upgrade my skills rather than downgrade them. I need to
focus on my details and remember why is the reason that I am a programmer.

**Day 1 - 50 HTML - CSS - Javascript**  [here](./day0-50.md)</br>
**Day 51 - 100 Javascript** [here](./day51-100.md)</br>
**Day 101 - 150 Javascript** [here](./day101-150.md)</br>
**Day 151 - 200 Javascript** [here](./day151-200.md)</br>
**Day 201 - 250 Javascript and start React JS** [here](day201-250.md)</br>
**Day 251 - 300 Javascript - React JS** [here](day251-300.md)</br>
**Day 301 - 350 Javascript - React JS and start Node JS** [here](day301-350.md)</br>
**Day 351 - 400 Start learn MERN stack** [here](day351-400.md)</br>
**Day 401 - 450 MERN stack - Docker - Typescript - TDD** [here](day401-450.md)</br>
**Day 451 - 500 Object Oriented Programming** [here](day451-500.md)</br>
**Day 501 - 550 Data Structures and Algorithms** [here](day501-550.md)</br>
**Day 551 - 600 Java**</br>
**Day 601 - 650 Java** [here](day601-650.md)</br>
**Day 651 - 700 Java and Spring Boot** [here](day651-700.md)</br>
**Day 701 - 750 Java | Spring Boot | MySQL** [here](day701-750.md)</br>
**Day 751 - 800 Java | Spring Boot | MySQL** [here](day751-800.markdown)</br>
**Day 801 - 850 Java | Spring Boot | OCI** [here](day801-850.md)</br>
**Day 851 - 900 Java | Design Patterns** [here](day851-900.md)</br>
**Day 901 - 950 Java | Design Patterns** [here](day901-950.md)</br>
**Day 951 - 1000 Java | Design Patterns** [here](day951-1000.md)</br>
**Day 1001 - 1050 Java | New Job** [here](day1001-1050.md)</br>
**Day 1051 - 1100 Java | Python | Cloud Computing** [here](day1051-1100.md)</br>
**Day 1101 - 1150 Java | Containers | Cloud Native Development | OpenShift** [here](day1101-1150.md)</br>
**Day 1151 - 1200 Java | Containers | Python | Security** [here](day1151-1200.md)</br>
