# My Journey to Becoming a Software Engineer

Within this repository, I will document my evolution as a software engineer. Maintaining a record of our progress is
invaluable.
When I first embarked on my programming journey, I envisioned a way to reflect on my past decisions.
This repository stands as a testament to that vision, a chronicle of my growth in the world of software engineering.

## Programming Changes My Life

### Day 2368: Ubuntu Server

Today I have been provisioning and configure 2 Ubuntu servers to be used to run software engineering experiments. I face one problem when configuring my servers and was because the servers have limited resources, just have 1CPU and 1GB of RAM. I learned how to configure and enable `swap` memory in the server, the `fallocate` command is used to create a file with a defined size, `mkswap` command is used to format the file as be recognized as swap by the operating system, `swapon` command is used to enable the swap memory. Configuring the servers was fun, I learned a lot of new things and I am excited to continue learning more about how to use them.

### Day 2367: Learning about IO and NIO APIs on Java

Today I was learning about the IO and NIO APIs in Java. The IO API is the classic way to do input and output operations in Java for files, networking, etc. The majority of these APIs are blocking APIs and one of them are not well designed to work with modern computers, this is normal because were developed in the old days of Java. Today we had newer APIs that works better with the new hardware, some of them uses the DMA to save resources while doing common I/O operations like sending a file through a network connection. The last month when I complete the Fundamentals of Operating system course, maybe I don't understand why I will need to learn about OS, but today while learning these APIS the learned concepts makes click in my head. I am connecting the dots between all the learned knowledge in the past.

### Day 2366: Boss-Worker Thread Pattern

Today I refactored my Client/Server application to use the Boss-worker pattern. The boss-worker thread pattern is a multithreading pattern in which you have a one boss thread that is listening for incoming client connections, and N number of worker thread that are processing the client requests. This pattern is amazing because your application is always available to accept new client connections because the main processing tasks are performed by the worker threads, no the boss thread, so your application can easily scale to handle more client connections.

### Day 2365: Learning more about ServerSocketChannel and Selector APIs

Today I created a Client/Server applications using the `ServerSocketChannel` and `Selector` APIs from the `java.nio` package. I learned that the `Selector` API works like the C select API used for non-blocking I/O operations. I created a basic one thread Server app that listen for incoming client connections, N number of clients can connect to the server and send data, the benefit of using Selector is the server is not blocked waiting for a client to send data, instead it can do other operations while waiting for a client to send data. You will need to use the following pattern `selector.select()` in a while loop to check for incoming connections or data to read from the clients. I want to continue learning more about these APIs and create a more complex applications to understand better how to use them.

### Day 2364: Debugging TLS Connection

Today I was debugging a TLS connection code between a classic Client/Server architecture. The main problem with this connection was the server closes the client connection for an unknown reason, and shows an error message indicating that something wrong happened during the handshake operation. After debug for some time I discovered that the main problem was a timing issue, the server terminates the handshake before the Client in their side can terminate the handshake, due to this the connection in the server was lost, but because the Client manage a reconnect mechanism we just have a silent failure here, in the second attempt the client can connect to the server without issues. I want to continue learning more about how to create a basic Client/Server connection using the `SocketChannel` and `SSLContext` Java classes.

### Day 2363: Metro Mirror

Today I complete the Global Copy course section and started with the Metro Mirror course section. Metro Mirror is a technology that allows to replicate data from one storage system to another system in a synchronous way. Because the operations are synchronous the trade-off is Metro Mirror only works in distance <300km. The main problem here is the latency, if the distance is greater than 300km the latency will be greater than 10ms and the system will not work correctly. In a metro mirror session before the IO operation can be completed, the data needs to be replicated to the Secondary Storage system/ DS8000. Makes sense that the distance needs to be less than 300km to work in a synchronous way, imagine replicating data to another storage system in another continent, that is a big trip for the data between the two DS8000.

### Day 2362: Global Copy and HyperSwap

Today I studied how works the IBM Global Copy and HyperSwap together to offer 99.99999999 availability. Global copy is an IBM technology that allow DS8000 customers to replicate their data from one storage system to another storage system that can be in the same data center, a different data center, inclusively in another continent. HyperSwap is a IBM Z mainframe technology that through a component that works as an agent on the mainframe, it allows to failover a IO operation from one storage system to another storage system when a disaster occur like an outage. The combination of both technologies allow to have a highly available system.

### Day 2361: AI Skills

Today, I studied what an AI Skill is, how to create them, and how to use them. An AI Skill is essentially a way to provide an AI agent with the ability to perform tasks more efficiently and remember key considerations during execution. I believe AI Skills are a very useful feature for AI agents; they allow you to configure how your application is built so that you don't have to explain the project structure or task procedures to the agent every time.

### Day 2360: Monitoring Tools

Today, I studied the advantages of using monitoring tools to understand the current health of our system or perform maintenance tasks on a host. I want to continue learning more about Ansible and how to use it to monitor system health and perform maintenance tasks. To me, Ansible is one of the best tools for automation and server administration.

### Day 2359: Safeguarded Copy

Today I studied the architecture behind the IBM Safeguarded Copy Technology and how the Safeguarded Copy works. A Safeguarded Copy is a point-in-time copy of a volume that is immutable and hidden for the host. The host could not modify or see the Safeguarded Copy. The Safeguarded Copy is stored in a different location than the original volume, that location is hidden for anything that wants to change or delete it. The Safeguarded Copy also uses a bitmap like FlashCopy to know which blocks/tracks were modified from the source volume, and also uses a Consistency Group Log to ensure consistency between all the Safeguarded Copies.

### Day 2358: FlashCopy

Today I studied the architecture behind the IBM FlashCopy technology. I learned that to maintain consistency between a source and a target volume, the FlashCopy uses a bitmap to track the changes between the source and the target volume. The bytes are saved into the volumes as a `Block` for FB volumes and `Tracks` for CKD volumes. You can see the bitmap just like an index that ensure that the `block/track` at index i in the source volume is the same as the `block/track` at index i in the target volume. It is very interesting that this I don't want to say basic mechanism is behind the FlashCopy, I know that this is a very basic representation of this technology and all the implementation details are more complex than this, but it is very interesting to see how this works.

### Day 2357: Completed Copy Services

Today I completed the Copy Services course module. I learned about the different types of copy services that the DS8000 storage system provides, such as FlashCopy, Metro Mirror, Global Mirror, and others. The course have a CSM session demo to showcase how looks the CSM interface and a brief explanation of the different CSM features. I want to explore over the weekend which other alternatives exists like Copy Services in the industry, I know that AWS have something similar for their storage services but not sure if their features are like the IBM Copy Services technologies.

### Day 2356: Continue Studying the IBM Storage DS8000 Course

Today I continue working on the IBM Storage DS8000 course. I studied about the Copy Services Manager tool, which is used to create copies of data. A learned that a `Copy Set` is just a logical grouping of volumes of the same type and contains the same data. Volume A is the source and Volume B is the target. A source volume is just the volume that contains the data that we want to copy, and a target volume is the volume that will receive the copy of the data. Storage Backup Technologies like CSM, Snapshots or other type of technologies are interesting for me. It is very interesting the algorithms they use to ensure the replication of data from one volume to another volume works correctly.

### Day 2353-54-55: SAN Networks

During these days I have been studying about SAN. The Storage Area Network is a type of network designed for Storage operations. It is very interesting how this network is well designed Clients of this network they see available Space in their devices like a Laptop, but the real hardware is located somewhere else and can be different types of hardware like an SSD, HDD, Dell Array, etc. The SAN work together with the SVC (Storage Virtualization Controller) to provide this abstraction to the clients. The hardware components are managed by the SVC, and the Write/Read operations are managed by the SVC too. I want to continue studying more this topic.

### Day 2352: Continue Learning about DS8000

Today I continue learning more about the zHyperLink technology for the DS8000 system. zHyperLink is a technology that allows to connect the DS8000 storage system directly to the client in this case the client is an IBM Z Mainframe, this connection is done through a PCIe connection. This technology is designed to provide low latency and high bandwidth for the storage system, it is very interesting how this technology works and the advantages that we can get with it. The general idea is to connect both systems through a PCIe Gen 4 connection, imagine two laptops connected by a wire. Sometimes I felt bored learning about this stuff, but I think that learning about the architecture design of a piece of hardware like the DS8000 is very interesting and can help me to understand better how the software works in the low level, and also can help me to understand better how the software and hardware are related.

### Day 2351: Logical Representations

Today I studied how the DS8K storage system represent physical storage hardware into logical representations. It is interesting that to create a Logical Volume, other logical resources like Array, Rank, Extent Pool, etc are required. It is very interesting for me why all these logical resources needs to be created, which problem solves each one of them because for me it is better to split a physical drive to just for example N number of logical volumes, more easy to manage. I will need to continue investigating the why behind this architecture.

### Day 2350: Savings Java Objects into Files on Disk

Today I work in some code to save some Java Objects into files on disk to be used later in a unit test. This feature is amazing in Java, sometimes you want to test a method and most of the times if the parameter of the method is a big object or you don't know how to build it you can use this feature to load a sandbox to a development environment to save the object into a file and use it later.

### Day 2349: Continue with DS8000 Learning

Today I have been continue with the DS8000 learning while doing a Training. I learned about how the DS8000 uses a big cache architecture to improve the performance of the storage system. I know that reading or writing bytes to a cache is faster than reading or writing bytes to a disk. One of the main problems with writing data to a cache is that the data is volatile, so that means the data is lost in a power off. The DS8000 uses `NVDIMMs (Non-Volatile Dual Inline Memory Modules)` this type of memory is non-volatile that means that in the case of a power off the bytes are flushed to the flash storage to keep the data safe. It is very interesting how this technology works and the advantages that we can get with it.

### Day 2347-48: Organizing 2026 Goals

I take some time off over the weekend to organize my 2026 goals. I refactored my current 2026 goals to get this year the `IBM Software Developer Level 2 - Experience`. I want to get this goal during the year and I matched my current learning goals with the requirements of the certification. I started a course to learn more about the IBM DS8000 Storage System. Taking some time off from code during holidays is a good way to recharge batteries and have a calm moment to reflect about what you want to do in the future.

### Day 2346: Linux Namespaces

Today I learning more about `namespaces` on Linux. namespaces are a linux technology that allow you to isolate system resources like `MNT` namespace that is used to isolate the file system. With the `MNT` a process can think that they have a separated file system and it is unique for this process, but the hosts have access to it. Think like do you want to split a resource to assign the new split resource to a process and this process can use it in any way, without restrictions. I still have not understood how namespaces works and the advantages that we can get with it. I remember this quote today when trying to write this journal entry: `What I cannot create, I do not understand`.

### Day 2345: Virtualization and Containerization

Today I complete the Virtualization and Containerization course module. It is interesting how learning again old concepts when you have more experience in computer science and programming you discover new things or you connect some dots. Always Docker for me looks like a magic tool, how is possible that you can create N number of containers or run any Linux operating system like Ubuntu, Debian, Arch in your Linux, Windows or MacOS PC at the same time and in a unique machine? Really looks like magic in the past, but today after some more years of experience and doing computer science fundamentals learning, Docker today looks like what it is a well designed tool/application that does an specific job very well.

### Day 2344: User 1 and Kernel 0 Modes

Today I learned more about how a Context Switch works and the cost to execute a Context Switch. Basically, there are two modes in a CPU, User Mode 1 and Kernel mode 0. When you execute any type of application like a C app, the application is executed on User mode, and to perform I/O operations, your application needs to use syscalls on C, these syscalls are executed in Kernel mode. Think on these modes as a separate boxes, and the Kernel box is protected so just the Kernel and Operating system have access to it. So when you need to do something that requires Kernel access, you need to do a Context Switch to Kernel mode, and when you are done, you need to do a Context Switch back to User mode. This Context Switch has a cost, and this cost is the time it takes to copy the data from User mode to Kernel mode and back to User mode.

### Day 2343: Tmux

Today I begin to learn how to use `Tmux` with my iTerm terminal. Tmux is Terminal Multiplexer this means that from one terminal you can run N terminals inside one, sounds complex but is very easy, you have 1 terminal opened and you can have inside that terminal N number of terminal like a sub-terminals. The beauty of tmux is you can create sessions, this session are configurable and saved by tmux so you can create N number if sessions, each session can have N number of windows and panes. A window is like have two iTerm tabs inside one terminal and a pane is when you split a windows into N number of parts like splitting a windows in three panes. Imagine the power, you can create a session for a server or a software engineering project, this session is composed by multiple windows and when you need to open your session it will be opened at the same point that you leave, all your windows, panes are restored. This is amazing, if you work with Servers, you can create a session per server and personalize it. If you have a project that always you compile it or in the AI world, yo can have N AI agents running in the terminal, so you can create a session save the agents windows and go back when you need it. I will continue exploring more about tmux but for the moment looks very useful and have multiple shortcuts configured by default that you can use.

### Day 2342: OS Concepts

Today I learned more about the following OS Concepts: Compiling vs Linking, Compiled languages, Interpreted Languages and Garbage Collectors. I learned new things for these topics. `Compiling` is the process of from you source code, like a .c file, create machine executable code, and `Linking` is the process of having that machine code compiled, crate an Executable file. Also the Linker look for OS libraries and link to the executable final result. Learning about these topics help me to understand Compiled and Interpreted languages, and how a Garbage collector works. It is interesting that a Garbage Collector is a beautiful thing, but if you want to have full control about your application, an interpreted language with a Garbage collector is not a good idea.

### Day 2340: HTTP

Today I continue studying more about Socket Management. HTTP is just a Client/Server sending character messages really? Yeah I discovered that while doing a basic TCP server that when a client (a browser like Safari) connects to it, and my server returns some bytes in a text-based protocol, we are creating an HTTP server. Well HTTP is just a text=based protocol that follow specific rules and clients needs to represent the server responses in a defined way. I believe that studying C is one of my best choices because I am learning a lot of stuff, stuff that writing Java, Python or other high-level language is hidden.

### Day 2339: IO Asynchronous Operations

Today I studied the `kqueue`, `select`, `epoll` and`io_uring` APIs to do I/O operations in an Asynchronous way. These APIs are designed to do IO Operations like read/write without block the main thread, in my work se use `select` now I understood that this API is used to listen for Kernel events related that something happened in a File Descriptors, the File descriptor is for a network connection like a TCP connection, so rather than using the `read` syscall to read data from the connection, you can listen for that type of events that happens to the FD and when the event is detected you receive it in your process and react to it. The drawback is if you are listening for 10 connections, when the event arrives you don't have a way to know for who is the event, so you need to do a `O(N)` operation to iterate over all FD and choose the correct one. I did some C code exercises to understand these APIs. For the moment continues be complicated for me to remember the purpose of all of them.

### Day 2338: Send and Receiving Data and Socket Programming Patterns

Today I have been studying how and application sends and receive data and how the Kernel do these operations. When a user use `read` in a C application to receive some data, the data will be read from the Receive Queue, this queue lives inside the Kernel, so the Kernel copies the data to the User Space (buffer), we are doing a User-to-Kernel Space context switch here. The same happens when the user uses the `write` syscall in C to write data to the server in a classic TCP connection. Also I studied a little the Socket Programming Patterns, for the moment I understand the first and easy pattern that is `Single Listener/Single Worker Thread`, on this pattern we have a process that listen for incoming connections, when a connection is created the same process read the data and also do something with that data, there are more patterns like Single Listener/Multiple Worker Threads, but I will need to study more these patterns to understand better.

### Day 2337: Zero-Copy Technique

Today I was doing more deep dive about how works reading and writing from a connection/Socket/File Descriptor. I was studying the Zero-Copy optimization used to avoid copy data into User Space and directly modifying the Kernel Page Cache and next flushing the dirty pages to the file on disk. It is interesting that for a 1GB file with a normal Read operation you end up coping that 1GB into two places, one is the Kernel Page Cache and second user Space, so at the end you are creating two copies of that file into two different places, I understand that sometimes copying the data to user space is a waste and due to this some optimization techniques exists.

### Day 2336: Sockets, Connections and Kernel Queues

Today I completed the `Sockets, Connection and Kernel Queue` module. This module was interesting I learned multiple things about how a Socket is represented by the Operating system, how it is manage. When a Client wants to connect to a TCP server, much stuff needs to happen to complete the connection flow. Really a lot of low level stuff. Also I learned that when a TCP server is created and listening for incoming connections, the SYN and Accept queues are created. SYN queue is used to store incoming client SYN messages ot establish a connection and the accept queue is used by the socket to know how many clients are connected to the server. Tomorrow I will need to continue investigating and practicing this stuff.

### Day 2335: Starting Sockets, Connections and Kernel Queues Module

Today I started the Sockets, Connections and Kernel Queues module. I did a code exercise to understand how many socket are created in a classic TCP Server-Client connection. One socket is created for the server when the Server bind the socket and listen for connections, we can call this socket the Socket connection and is just used by that to listening for incoming client connections. Second is created when the Client connects to the Socket, we can say that this is the Client socket and is used by the client to send data to the server, and finally a Third socket is created when the server accepts the connection from the Client,  we can call this socket a Server-Client socket and is used by the server to send data to the client. Also I learned about the `Pre-forked server` pattern, this is pattern where you create N numbers of child processes to handle the client connections, for example you setup the Socket in the Server but before do call the `accept` function you create a child process, this child process share the same parent physical Socket, so you have N numbers of child processes handling the client connections. I have an aha moment when I discover this patterns it is very interesting.

### Day 2333-34: Completed TCP Course Module

Today I have completed the Networking Fundamentals module. On this module I do brief study about networking fundamentals and how are related with applications within a Machine, I understand two new concepts called Multiplexing and Demultiplexes in networking, `Multiplexing` is when you receive multiple messages from different clients and you handle all of them in a a single place like having multiple applications producing events and multiplex them to a single queue. `Demultiplexes` is the contrary, when you have just one single event and send it to multiple clients. These concepts are very related with the TCP architecture and it works.

### Day 2332: Completed Pointers & Arrays Book Chapter

Today I completed the Pointers and Arrays chapter exercises. I had problems to complete the exercises, really sometimes doing pointer arithmetic looks like magic in C, I think that you need to practice more to feel comfortable doing arithmetic in pointers. I created some basic programs like a reverse word, palindrome, multiple programs to look for X element all doing just pointer arithmetic. I will need to plan my next move. I have pending the Udemy course, but maybe I want to learn more about C while doing a project.˝

### Day 2331: Doing C Pointer Arithmetic Exercises

Today I was doing the Pointer arithmetic exercises from the C programming book chapter 12. Really I am doing multiple mistakes with C and pointers, sometimes this looks like a magic about how you can manipulate memory addresses in the computer. The chapter contains around 18 exercises, and I am in the 12 so there are more exercises to complete.  

### Day 2330: Multi-dimensional Arrays

Today I started to learn how multi-dimensional arrays works in C. A multi-dimensional array in C is a similar concept like in Java and Python, the main problem is in C you can see the array as a 1D array in memory. For example, a 2D array is just an array of 1D arrays.  Yeah this s tricky, but when you understand this concept, your life will be more easy working with multi-dimensional arrays in C. I had a lot of issues to understand how access to the elements by a column. Remember that in Python you see a multi-dimensional array as a Matrix and in C is the same concept but in memory is different. So a Matrix have N number of Rows and Columns, accessing rows is easy, but accessing columns is tricky. Tomorrow I will need to continue practicing to understand how to access to the elements by a column.

### Day 2329: C Pointers and Array Decay

Today I learned the `Array Decay` concept in C. When you use an array name in most expressions, the array name decays (converts) to a pointer to its first element. This was interesting for me, because you can the following printf and this is valid: `printf("%p\n", arr);`. The last fragment of code shows you the memory address of the first element of the array. Also I continue learning more about Pointers and Arrays of C while reading the Chapter 12: Pointers and Arrays fro the C Programming a Modern Approach book.  

### Day 2328: Pointers are Just Reference to Memory Addresses

Today I completed the `Chapter 11: Pointers from the C programming a modern approach book`. I had an AHA moment when doing the chapter code exercises related with Pointers. A pointer on C is just the reference to bytes storage on the Memory. We can see the computer memory like a big bunch of Cells, each cell have an address like 0x90, so you want to allocate enough memory in the RAM memory to store a `int` object, so you require 4 cells 0x90, 0x91, 0x92, 0x93. When you declare a pointer to hold the memory address of the the cell that holds the first bits of the int variable that is 0x90, you store this address in the pointer variable.  Really when you understand how the computer RAM memory is represented and which is a pointer your C life be more easy. These types of learning are not possible with a language like Java or Python.

### Day 2327: Pointers

Today I started to read the Chapter 11: Pointers from the C programming a modern approach book to learn more about how work with pointers on C. In my work in our C code base we do an extensive usage of C pointers in our codebase, I am not very good with C pointers and I want to continue learning how to work with them. I did multiple exercises on the book and at this moment I am in the last part of the chapter in which I will need to do some code exercises.

### Day 2326: TCP

Today I did a refresh about how works the TCP protocol. The `Transmission Connection Protocol` is one of the most used in backed application, HTTP 1 and 2 is built on TCP, this protocol creates a reliable channel between a client and a server through a handshake process, when the connection is created, the client and the server an send messages through the connection. Clients can send N numbers of messages and the server can just send 1 reply, when I learned this in the past I feel that this is amazing, with a Classic HTTP communication, you expect that always the server sends back a response for each client message.

### Day 2325: Socket Management

Today I started the course section that talks about Socket Management. I did a little study about how the OSI model is composed and the need to have a standard way to communicate devices over the network. The OSI model is composed of 7 layers, and each layer have a specific purpose, for example software developers most of the times works on Layer 7 - Application and sometimes on Layer 5 - Transport. I learned that my C and C++ application when create a socket with the `socket` syscall works on the Layer 7.

### Day 2324: Storage Management

Today I completed the Storage Management Course section. In this section I explored the Persistent Storage, File Systems, File I/O, and a demo about how to create partitions of different types like `etx4`, `fat32` and `ntfs`. It is very interesting how the OS manages all these concepts and how a basic thing like the file system is very complicated to implement, there are a lot of layers of abstraction that hide all the complexity of the file system and the storage management.

### Day 2323: POSIX API

Today I have been studying the `read` and `write` functions in the POSIX API. When you work with C code, and you need to do a I/O operation like read bytes from a Socket, there are a lot of steps that needs to happen in different layers of the Operating System. First your application needs to change to Kernel Mode to execute the read operations to return to User Mode to allow the user to continue working with the logic. It is interesting how many layers of abstraction are in a basic read operation like reading a file from disk.

### Day 2322: Environment Variables in Processes

Today I learned that when a process start, for example you have a bash script to do X stuff your bash script is considered a process. Your bash script have their own memory and resources that are not shared between the other processes running on the Operating system. An interesting thing is how the Environment variables works within a bash script. When the bash script reads and OS environment variable, it creates a copy of this variable in their memory, and if another process modifies the OS environment variable, the value is not modified in your bash process. All this stuff is interesting for me and there are a lot of things pending to learn and practice about process management.

### Day 2321: OS ENV Variables

Today I was debugging an issue related with a JVM 17 that cannot initialize because requires the `libc++.a` library and this library is not configured in the `LIBPATH` environment variable within the OS. The main problem was when the OS starts, the  `LIBPATH` not contains the library path, a script is executed within the server and that scripts configures the library path in the `LIBPATH` variable. SO I had a classic happens before relationship here, when one event needs to happen after another event. To solve the issue, I needed to add logic to check if the library path is included in the `LIBPATH` variable, and if it is not included, sleep for 10 seconds, and do an attempt later.  

### Day 2319-20: File I/O Operation

During these days, I continue studying what really happens when an application or process does a file I/O operation, like open a file to write. There are multiple steps in a basic File I/O operation between the Application and the OS that manages the request, now I understood why File I/O operations are expensive to perform.

### Day 2318: Event Dispatcher

Today I created the `Event Dispatcher` for my Even Engine project. I have a Event Generator in the server application that every second create mock events and add the events to a shared queue. This queue is shared by the `Event Generator` and the `Event Dispatcher`. When a client is registered in the server and send the message about which events wants to listen, the client is saved in a List, each client have a callback function. The general idea is the Event Dispatcher thread runs, in a separate Thread, and when an event arrives to the shared queue, it wake up to process the events, and send the event to all the registered clients that wants to listen for that type of event. I learned that this a common pattern on event processor applications, and also was very fun implement this feature with C++ code.

### Day 2317: Continue with Event Engine Project

Today I continue with my `Event Engine` Project. Right now my Event Engine server support create a socket to accept client connections, when a client is connected, the client send a message to indicate that the client wants to listen for events of types X, and this is all. I have create a generator thread in the `Event Engine Server`, so my idea is to store the generated events in a queue and next in the thread that handle each client, `poll` the events from the queue and send it to the client. In the client side I just want to read the events from the server and finally show them in console for debugging purposes. Tomorrow I want to continue working into this feature in my Event Engine project.

### Day 2316: Completed File System Section

Today I completed the `File System` section for the OS Course. On this section I learned how File System works, what is a File System, how the file system interacts with the physical hardware like SSD/HDD, did a little code exercise to virtualize how a file system saves a physical file in N number of chunks, depending of the LBA size, and how those chunks are saved into a PBA on disk. Was an interesting section and I learned interesting new things that change how I see programming.

### Day 2315: The Importance of Block Size

Today I have studying about why is very important to choose a correct Block Size for the FS Blocks, LBA and PBA. When you choose a lower FS Block, when the OS wants to save a big file into disk you will suffer `External Fragmentation`. External Fragmentation happens when you want to save a 5MB photo in a File System that have a 1KB block size. If this is the case, the 5MB file needs to be split in 5120 blocks, and then looks for 5120 LBA to save all these blocks. You can imagine the result of saving a 1GB file with a FS block size of 1KB for example. An `Internal Fragmentation` happens when you choose a big FS Block size like 4096 bytes and you save a 100-byte txt file. You are wasting around 4396 bytes for that Block because remember a `File System Block` is the minimum operation to write data to the hardware that the Operating system can manage. Some concepts are not clear for me yet, so I will need to continue learning this tomorrow.

### Day 2314: Continue with File Systems

Today I continue studying about how File System works. I learned interesting concepts today like how woks the `FAT32` file system used on 32-bit machines. Basically FAT means File Allocation Table, you can see this `FAT32` as an array (can be a map r linked list) of 32 entries, and each of these array entries like 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, etc have the address of a `Cluster`, and a cluster is just a collection of contiguous `LBA (Logical Block Address)` imagine that a cluster have `64 LBAs` and each LBA have a size of 512-bytes, you total cluster size is `32KB`. So if you want to store a file with a size of 10KB, you can store that file in 1 Cluster, yeah you can store only 1 file in a cluster if the file size < cluster size, in case the file is larger than the cluster, your Cluster have a reference to the next cluster with the data, so your file is split into multiple chunks to be saved in N number of clusters. Really it is interesting how all this stuff is managed by the OS and the lot of layers of abstraction are available that hide all this complexity.

### Day 2312-13: File System

Today I begin to study about file systems. The file system is a logical method and data structured used by the Operating System to storage data in the hardware device (SSD, HDD, etc). When you want to store a file within your computer, the OS needs to know how to store that file in the SSD, so the File System enters in action, the file system communicates with the hardware through their controller, and do the necessary operations to save the file. An important concept to understand about the File System is the file system Block Size, this block size can have different values but for simplicity we use the most common 4096-bytes, you want to save a .txt file with a size of 100-bytes, the file system issue a command to save this file in a FS block, and the disk controller do the next steps. This is trade-off, because you only want to store 100-bytes of data but you will need to allocated and fill the total space for a FS block, A big trade-off.

### Day 2311: Event Engine C and C++ App

Today I have been working into create an Event Engine application in C and C++. My main idea for this project was have the Event Engine working as a server that generates fake Operating systems events like CPU usage, memory usages, Disk Usage, and Network Usage. A Event Engine Client application can connect to the event engine server and listen for specific events through a subscription message. The event engine server will send the events to the client application trough a UNIX Domain Socket. This project is have been excited because I am learning C and C++ while doing the project.

### Day 2310: Storage Management Completed Section

Today I have completed the `Storage Management` Course section. On this section I studied about why we need to store data to be persistent like database information, how works an HDD and an SSD disks, the difference between them. I studied the SSDs Architecture and NAND, it is interesting how an SSD is designed and how the OS represent and SSD with LBA (Logical Block Address), the OS just see our SSD as a giant array, where each element is a block to store bytes normally 4KiB. Studying about the SSD architecture was very interesting, there are a lot of trade-offs in their design, but also are required. Now I know that the windows defragmentation tool was the dead for an SSD.

### Day 2309: Continue Learning SSD

Today I continue studying the design of SSDs. I do a research about why you cannot updated bytes in a page rather than do a remove and write operation, for me looks like a waste of resources but I learned that there is a physical hardware limitation that complicates this process. Also I learned that for example if you want to remove a Page, you will need to remove the entire block that contains that page, this is crazy because maybe your block contains 256 pages and you just want to remove 1 page. It is what it is. I did a C CLI application to create a simple SSD simulator to understand better how the SSD works. This application have some structs that represents the SSD components like the `Block`, `Page`, `LBA` and one of the most important the `FTL` (Flash Translation Layer) that acts like the brain of the SSD.

### Day 2308: Writing and Reading from an SSD is a Waste of Resources

Today I have been studied how SSDs works. I learned something that shocks my mind. When the OS just needs to store for example 10 bytes in an SSD, the SSD needs to store those 10 bytes in a `Page` and then write the entire page to the NAND flash memory. The main problem here is a page is normally 4KiB, 8KiB ot 16KiB depending of the SSD model. This means that if you just need to store 10 bytes, you waste a lot of free space. This `Pages` could not be modified when they are written, when you need to update those 10 bytes, first you will need to save the data into a new page, mark the old page as *dirty* and wait for a Garbage Collection to remove an entire Block. Yes another concept is a the `Block`, a block is just a group of pages (128 or 256 pages) managed by the **FTL** component. The FTL is a component that maps LBA from the OS to Physical Page Addresses (PPA). At this moment I don't know why we just waste resources in this way, I know that everything have a trade-off in software engineering and this for me is an interesting trade-off.

### Day 2307: Storage Management

Today I begin the Storage Management course section. I am learning about the primary storage hardware components like HDDs, SSDs, and NVMe drives. I am very interested on this section because in my work we work with storage virtualization technologies like RAID 1, 2, 5, 6, 19, etc. I believe that if I learn more about how the storage works in the low level, I can apply all the learned knowledge to my work. We don't manage the low-level code that does the virtualization, but we offer this features to clients through multiple APIs and client that user can use to manage their storage.

### Day 2305-06: Process Management Course Section Completed

Today I completed the Process Management course section. I learned multiple things about how the Operating systems manage the processes in the system. In the final modules I did a little exercise to know how to debug a C application to understand how the memory is shared with a child process and the parent process. To know information about a process you can go the `/proc/PID` folder and there you can find multiple files that contains information about that specific process. For example the `status` file contains information like the UID, GID, memory usage, number of threads, etc. Also I learned about the different states of a process like Running, Waiting, Stopped, Zombie, etc.

### Day 2304: Concurrency

Today I have been studying concurrency. I learned that concurrency can be achieved in two main ways, multithreading and multiprocessing. Multithreading is when you have multiple threads running in the same process, and multiprocessing is when your application is composed of multiple process, for example you have a process that just wait for incoming user input and another process execute the user request. Also I studied about Mutexes and Semaphores to avoid common concurrency issues. I like Mutexes are very simple to understand and implement.

### Day 2303: Context Switching

Today I have been studying how the CPU performs a context switch. Your CPU is executing process A and the Kernel sends a signal to the CPU to stop to execute Process A, the CPU needs to start the context switch to execute Process B. The context switch process have the following steps: 1. Save the state of process A into the Process PCB (Process Control Block), 2. Load the state of process B into the Process PCB, 3. Switch the CPU to execute process B. As a additional consideration, when the CPU starts to execute process B the execution is slow at the start because the CPU needs to load the L1 cache with the instructions of process B. This is called cache miss.

### Day 2302: Process VS Thread Section Completed

Today I completed the Process VS Thread course section. I learned the main differences between a `process` and a `thread` like a process is the instance of a program running on the operating system and have dedicated multiple resources like memory sections, file descriptors, etc. In the other side a `Thread` is a light weight process that share most of the same memory of the parent process, but maintains some memory for the thread state. Always a thread needs to have a reference to the parent process for multiple purposes. Really it is interesting how when your learn about how Linux works, you see programming in another way and you can start to think the multiple times that you can apply Linux principles and design in code.

### Day 2301: Thread Control Block (TCB)

Today I have been studying the Thread Control Block. I see the thread control block as a data structured used by the Kernel to store metadata about a thread. When we have a process running we can create N number of thread for that process, this is when the TCB enters in action because to schedule the thread, execute the thread, the Kernel uses the TCB. I did a C application in which I create a thread and configuring some TCB attributes like the Stack Size and Priority. The TCB is stored in memory in Kernel space and in modern linux OS a thread have a dedicated TCB. This TCB also contains a reference to the parent PCB and a reference to the next TCB.

## History

| Days      | Main Topics / Technologies                                                                                                                                                                              | Highlights                                                                                                 | Link                                   |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| 1-50      | HTML, CSS, JavaScript                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day0-50.md)          |
| 51-100    | JavaScript                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day51-100.md)        |
| 101-150   | JavaScript                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day101-150.md)       |
| 151-200   | JavaScript                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day151-200.md)       |
| 201-250   | JavaScript, React JS                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day201-250.md)       |
| 251-300   | JavaScript, React JS                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day251-300.md)       |
| 301-350   | JavaScript, React JS, Node JS                                                                                                                                                                           | Learning MERN Stack                                                                                        | [View](./day0-500/day301-350.md)       |
| 351-400   | MERN Stack                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day351-400.md)       |
| 401-450   | MERN Stack, Docker, TypeScript, TDD                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day401-450.md)       |
| 451-500   | Object Oriented Programming                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                            | [View](./day0-500/day451-500.md)       |
| 501-550   | Data Structures and Algorithms                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day501-550.md)    |
| 551-600   | Java                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                            |                                        |
| 601-650   | Java                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day601-650.md)    |
| 651-700   | Java, Spring Boot                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day651-700.md)    |
| 701-750   | Java, Spring Boot, MySQL                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day701-750.md)    |
| 751-800   | Java, Spring Boot, MySQL                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day751-800.md)    |
| 801-850   | Java, Spring Boot, Oracle Cloud                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day801-850.md)    |
| 851-900   | Java, Design Patterns                                                                                                                                                                                   | First developer job                                                                                        | [View](./day501-1000/day851-900.md)    |
| 901-950   | Java, Design Patterns                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                            | [View](/day501-1000/day901-950.md)     |
| 951-1000  | Java, Design Patterns                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                            | [View](./day501-1000/day951-1000.md)   |
| 1001-1050 | Java                                                                                                                                                                                                    | New Job in a Big Tech Company                                                                              | [View](./day1001-1500/day1001-1050.md) |
| 1051-1100 | Java, Python, Cloud Computing                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1051-1100.md) |
| 1101-1150 | Java, Containers, Cloud Native Development, OpenShift                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1101-1150.md) |
| 1151-1200 | Java, Containers, Python, Security                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1151-1200.md) |
| 1201-1250 | Java, Python, Security, English                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1201-1250.md) |
| 1251-1300 | Java, Python, Security, English, Soft Skills                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1251-1300.md) |
| 1301-1350 | Java, Python, Spark, Microservices                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1301-1350.md) |
| 1351-1400 | Java, Python, Design Patterns, Microservices                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1351-1400.md) |
| 1401-1450 | Java, Design Patterns, CI/CD                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1401-1450.md) |
| 1451-1500 | Java, Design Patterns, CI/CD                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1001-1500/day1451-1500.md) |
| 1501-1550 | Java, Python, Data Analytics, CI/CD                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1501-2000/day1501-1550.md) |
| 1551-1600 | Java, Python, Data Analytics, CI/CD                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1501-2000/day1551-1600.md) |
| 1601-1700 | Java, Python, React JS, DSA                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1501-2000/day1601-1705.md) |
| 1701-1750 | Java, Go, DSA                                                                                                                                                                                           | DSA book                                                                                                   | [View](./day1501-2000/day1706-1750.md) |
| 1751-1800 | Java, Python, DSA, AWS Cloud Practitioner, Data Engineering                                                                                                                                             | Data Engineering Learning                                                                                  | [View](./day1501-2000/day1751-1800.md) |
| 1801-1850 | Java, Python, Airflow, AWS, Data Engineering                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                            | [View](./day1501-2000/day1801-1850.md) |
| 1851-1900 | Python, Airflow, Cloud Computing, Data Engineering, Spark                                                                                                                                               | Apache Airflow Certification                                                                               | [View](./day1501-2000/day1851-1900.md) |
| 1900-1950 | IBM Cloud, Parquet Files, DSA, Python, Java, SQL, Spark, Airflow                                                                                                                                        | IBM Cloud Practitioner Certification                                                                       | [View](./day1501-2000/day1900-1950.md) |
| 1951-2000 | Java, DSA, Java Reflection, Concurrency, OOP, Networking, Storage Systems, Unit Testing                                                                                                                 | New Project and Team                                                                                       | [View](./day1501-2000/day1951-2000.md) |
| 2001-2050 | Java, Byte/Bit Manipulation, DSA, Concurrency, Multithreading, TDD, C, Networking, Makefile, Sockets & TCP                                                                                              | Study Computer Science & Java Advance Topics                                                               | [View](./day2001-2500/day2001-2050.md) |
| 2051-2100 | Java, Golang, C, Concurrency, Multithreading, Networking, Distributed Systems, TDD, JVM, Java Dumps, JNI, Sockets, TCP, BitTorrent Protocol, Binary Protocols, Kubernetes Architecture, Docker, Ansible | Build a Shell & BitTorrent client with Go; Deep dive into Java Internals & Distributed Systems             | [View](./day2001-2500/day2051-2100.md) |
| 2101-2150 | Golang, Distributed Systems, Networking, Binary Protocols, Storage Systems, C, Bash, TDD                                                                                                                | Built a Block Storage application in Go; Deep dive into storage, networking & distributed systems concepts | [View](./day2001-2500/day2101-2150.md) |
| 2151-2200 | C, Distributed Systems, Java, Networking (Sockets, TCP), Binary Protocols, Database Internals (SQLite clone, B-Tree), C++, Ansible                                                                      | Building an SQLite clone in C; Deep dive into Distributed Systems patterns & C fundamentals                | [View](./day2001-2500/day2151-2200.md) |
| 2201-2250 | C, OS Internals, Process Memory Layout, CPU Caches, Kernel and User Space, Java Proxies, JAR Packaging, Wrapper Pattern, Idempotent Receiver, Versioned Values, Eventual Consistency                    | Completed database SQLite Clone on C, Deep dive into memory management                                     | [View](./day2001-2500/day2201-2250.md) |
| 2251-2300 | C, OS Internals (Memory, CPU, TCB), Networking (TCP, Sockets, Framing), Java (JNI), Distributed Systems                                                                                                 | Deep dive into CPU architecture, Socket Programming in C & JNI                                             | [View](./day2001-2500/day2251-2300.md) |
