### Day 2050: Working with Bytes

Today, I worked into create a byte[] in which I will need to concatenate `N` number of responses inside it. The general idea was wrap the byte[] into a Java object and create an API for the clients, like creating a `Facade` design pattern to offers a simple API with complex calculations. Some of the features were, provide a `getNextResponse()` like a linked list method to get the next response element between the `byte[]`, also a has method for the same functionallity, some methods to split the raw array byte into chunks, etc. I feel good while working on this code implementation. 

### Day 2049: Java Feature Toggles

Today, I worked on implementing a new feature with a **feature toggle** functionality for a software product. We need to develop a new feature for one of our clients who also requires the old code functionality. I investigated software architecture patterns to achieve this behavior and found the feature toggle pattern. Imagine this pattern as an on/off button. When the button is on, you have the new behavior, and when the button is off, you have the old behavior. We can configure the on/off button with an environment variable, a configuration file, or a basic touch file.

### Day 2048: Concurrency Issues and Ubuntu Server Dead

Today, while studying common concurrency issues when accessing shared resources by multiple threads, such as race conditions, I delved deeper into the Java synchronized mechanism. Java provides a synchronization mechanism to effectively manage multiple threads within an application. The `synchronized` keyword is used to create a lock on a resource, preventing race conditions and other issues. Interestingly, every class in Java has an intrinsic lock mechanism, and this mechanism can be utilized with the `synchronized` keyword.

On a different note, after upgrading some packages on my Ubuntu server and restarting it, I noticed that the server was looping in the restart process. I’m not sure why this is happening, but I’ll have to investigate further on the weekend. 

### Day 2047: Throughput, Threads and Concurrency

Today I continue with my Java course about Multithreading and performance in Java. Today I created an HTTP application that has an endpoint in which the user sends a word like `word=dog` and the application looks for all the dog words in a file in .txt format. The interesting part of this example is that we executed a loading test with JMeter to measure the throughput of the system. If we increase the application threads, the application has a better throughput improvement. Tomorrow I will continue studying these topics because they are very interesting.

### Day 2046: Continue with Threads and Bit/Byte Manipulation 

Today I continue learning about Threads and byte manipulation. I worked on an application to change the color of an image, manipulating the pixels individually, modifying their RGB colors. This exercise was great, but I had a problem because the code looks good, but for an unknown reason, the final image finally finishes with a corrupt state. The idea is to create two versions of the application: one version runs in a single thread, and the other runs on multiple threads, executing the task in parallel.

### Day 2045: Java Threading and Bitwise

Today I have been studying Java Threading and Bitwise operations. I remember how to work with the `join` method in a Thread, how to execute some code and wait until all the code logic inside a `Runnable` implementation is executed. Also, I reviewed what a Daemon thread is. A Daemon thread is a Thread that runs in the background within the main application execution. If the daemon thread is running, we can terminate the application without waiting for the thread completion. Daemon threads are useful when you want to execute a process in parallel in your main application, and this process can be interrupted at any time. 

### Day 2044: Continue with Bytes and Bitwise Operators

Today I have been studying about bit manipulation in Java using Bitwise operators. I studied the `AND` (`&`) operator, this operator is useful if you wany to check if a specific bit is 1 in a mask. This operator creates a result with bit setuo to 1 in the bit position in which both bits were 1 in the operands. I will continue working with these bitwise operators because I want to understand good these low-level concepts.  

### Day 2043: Working with Bit and Bytes

Today I was working into create some code logic to fill a Java `byte[]` array with some specific to build an entire bitmap with a length of `255` elements. The general idea was create the bitmap that contains 255 bits and for example 1 means the element is present and 0 means the element is not present. This exercise was very useful to learn how to manipulate bits and bytes directly with Java, and how to use bitwise operations like `>>`, `&`, etc.

### Day 2042: Java Threads

Today I started the Java Multithreading, Concurrency & Performance Optimization [Udemy course](https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/java-multithreading-concurrency-performance-optimization). I have created a goal to learn Java advance concepts and Multi-threading applications, concurrency and performance are one of them. For the moment the course looks good, I have a refresh about how the operating systems uses threads to execute multiple tasks at the same time (Concurrency). I learned again the Context Switch problem when creatig multiple threads and the OS does not have the necessary resources to manage it, this causes long times and bad responsiveness for the application. 

### Day 2041: Mediator Pattern

Today, I reviewed the Mediator design pattern. I worked on understanding a storage feature called a channel connection volume. This channel connection volume is like an interface that clients use to send data to device volumes. I applied this concept to the Mediator design pattern. You can think of this feature as middleware between the client and the end destination. It's merely a pipe through which requests travel. It looks like Design Patterns can be used to represent multiple things or to understand other technologies.

### Day 2032-40: Vacation Time

I took a break from coding during my vacation. It was tough, but I needed to recharge and relax. I’m feeling refreshed and ready to tackle my goals. I’ll start early tomorrow to get back on track. I have a lot to accomplish in the next few months. I set up some goals related to Java, Java advanced concepts, performance, and storage virtualization technologies.

### Day 2031: Setting my Goals

Today I reviewed my professional and personal goals as a Software Developer. I refactor my current sheet that I use to track my goals and progress, adding and removing one of them and also I used AI to build a more focused plan and review if my current goals are achievable considering my free time.

### Day 2030: Java Bit Server Socket 

Today I practiced building a Java application that creates a server socket and accepts incoming connections from clients. The different thing was that I designed the socket server to interpret the incomming client messages by reading the bits of X byte. The idea was to practice bitwise operations in Java, for example, if the first byte on the received message has 1 in the 7-index, do something specific with the message, if not, do this other thing. Practicing bitwise operations was great for me because I loved to lean about the low-level concepts in computer science. 

### Day 2028-29: Bit, Bytes and Bitwise Operations in Java

Today I was working on reading and deserializing some bytes to Java objects. The challenge of this task was I am not very good with bytes, bit, bitwise operations and low-level code things. So I had to learn how to check if a bit withint a byte, for example check if the bit 6 has a value of 1 to perform some action, or perform some other action. Really my brain hurt for some time, but well I continue working, learning and remembering several things related with these code operations and at the end I can complete the task. I want to continue practicing these topics during the week and weekend to gain more skills.

### Day 2026-27: Just Java

Today I had some problems to understand the hierarchy of a Java class and how the class wsa designed. The class is an implementation of an interface and depending of the implementation class the interface method behavior changes, the class follow the Builder pattern. The problem was difficult because the main method of this class returns and object of X type, but the result also is an interface and their implementation is placed in a separate module and having an interface and 10 implementations sometimes is difficult to know which object the method is returning when a client call it. When the code is running and you have the ability to execute the program easily add a break point is a fast way to understand the problem, but if you could not configure a break point in the IDE to debug the code, good luck.

### Day 2025: Studying Sockets & Java Compatibility

Today I was developing some code to study about Socket connections. I reviewed the source Java code for the ServerSocket and Socket classes to understand how Java manage the socket creations. I want to understand deeply how the sockets are created and managed because in my work we rely on Socket connections and sometimes these connections fails with disconnected status of other type of errors randomly. Also I did a little research about one questions that was sounding in my head the entire week "*Java code compiled with 8 version and running in a JVM 17, can utilize all the new features for a Java 17 version?*", I utilized **Gemini** to create a research paper about this topic, and the result was great the research paper created is very good and works for my purposes, also if you have doubts about if the AI is making hallucinations, you can easily review the reference section with all the sources used to create the document, if you have curiosity please review the next link to read the document: [PDF Document](resources/java-8-compiled-code-running-in-jvm-17.pdf). Also is amazing 2025 coding days and the current year is the 2025 I believe that I will not see this happens again.

### Day 2024 Continue Studying About Virtualization Storage

Today I will continue to study storage virtualization techniques. To organize logical volumes for easy management and copy services functions, these volumes are grouped into Logical Subsystems, a logical subsystem can have up to 256 logical volumes, but all these logical volumes must have the same format, an example a logical volume can be a fixed block or CKD (Content Key Data) type. Grouping logical volumes into LSS is convenient for some operations, another concept is that we can group LSS into address group and each address group can have 16 LSS. There is a lot of technical stuff left to learn about storage virtualization techniques for me. Well, tomorrow I want to learn some new things about Java.

### Day 2022-23 Studying Virtualization Logical Concepts

Today I studied some virtualization logical concepts for a storage system. One of the most abstract logical concepts is the logical volume. Think in a logical volume that you have a HDDs with 1TB of storage and you want to split that HDD in 5 X 200G parts and to achieve that you build 200G logical volume from tha physical HDD. A modern alternative to create a logical volume from a physical volume is use extents, an extent is another logical layer that you can use to divide a physical volume into fixe-sized chunks and you can allocate that chunks into a logical volume using an extent pool. I know there is a lot of stuff here but I want to understand more Storage virtualization technologies and storage systems.

### Day 2021: Global Variables in C

Today I learned that in C you can create a global variable when you simple declare the variable in the file outside of any other function, normally you want to declare the global variables at the top of the file. To be able to use that variable in another module you will need to use the `extern` keyword before the variable type and name like `extern int counter`, this line of code is like saying use the counter variable with type int from any other module. You will need to have caution because if you declare two global variables with the same name in different modules, you had a compilation error.

### Day 2020: Errors with Unit Testing and Makefiles in C

Today I attempted to fix some errors in my make tasks that executes all my unit tests inside a folder using the C unity library. Working with Makefiles is like working with the terminal, the instructions are some unix commands and a lot of pattern matching for the path files. Really configuring my C project to execute all my unit tests to work in a TDD methodology in C is becoming a nightmare. Well, I believe that tomorrow I continue working on this.

### Day 2019: Unit Testing in C

Today I learned how to create and execute unit tests with C. I found an excellent Medium tutorial about how to configure, create and execute Unit Test in C using the Unity framework [here](https://medium.com/@kasra_mp/introduction-to-c-unit-testing-with-the-unity-framework-15903823ce8a). I am doing an Udemy course about C and the course does not have unit test for the code that tutorial code (I believe that 95% of the programming courses don't have unit tests.) and to make the tutorial more challenge and feel that really I am learning something I am writing unit test for the code and also extending the code provided by the tutorial.  For me is good learn on this way, learning by practice.


### Day 2018: Organizing Goals and C Code

Today I organize and updated my goals for the next months. I continue studying C programming language for fun and also I am choosing a new book to start to read. For the C learning I am doing a Udemy course and reinforce my learning with writing unit test for the code and extending the code provided in the course. For the moment I am learning the purpose of the `h` files in C and algo how to compile the code using the `gcc` compiler with Make files.

### Day 2016-17: Completed to read DSA Book

During these days I completed to read the DSA book. When I finished to read the book I went to GeekForGeeks to solve some random problems. I feel very good working on the book exercises because most of them I can solved it without my current knowledge. My next step for my DSA journey now is continue solving problems in GeekForGeeks and solving some algorithms list about the most common problems like the [Blind 75 list](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/most-asked-75-coding-problems/).

### Day 2015: Continue Learning DSA

Today I continue studying the Dijkstra algorithm, I study the algorithm logic ot solve this problem and for the moment the logic is very complicated, I think that is one of the most complicated algorithm that I studied while reading the book. I am working into implement it with Java code.

### Day 2014: Dijkstra Algorithm

Today I studied the Dijkstra algorithm. This algorithm is used to know the shortest path in a Weighted Graph, for the moment the algorithm is hard to understand for me because I am figure out how the algorithm use backtracking to save the responses from previous executions and combine with the new executions to get the result. Tomorrow I will continue studying this.

### Day 2013: Graphs Time Complexity

Today I continue reading and studying my DSA book. I continue reading the chapter dedicated to the Graph data structure, for the moment I implemented the two algorithms most used to search for an element within Graph Breadth-first search and Deep-first search. Also I remember that a Graph have a `O(V + E)` time complexity that means V for the number of vertices and E for the number of Edges within the Graph. I have the plan to continue studying this DS for some days more.

### Day 2012: Dealing with Segmentation Fault C Errors

Today I continue working on my project about designing my own protocol over TCP for a client-server communication. Working on the feature to encode the message to hexadecimal values in the client before send the message to the server I face some C issues related with the memory usage. Working with C is difficult at the start because you will need to allocate to memory every array and also you are responsible to free the memory after used it.

### Day 2011: C Project

Today I worked on a C project. I am creating a Chat application in C with a basic client-server communication sending and receiving messages.

### Day 2010: BFS Breadth-First Search

Today I studied the BFS algorithm to traverse all nodes within a Graph DS. The core of BFS is traverse the Graph node by node using recursion. The first step is to review if the node is already placed in another DS (normally a Map) to maintain a registry if the node was visited. If the node was not visited we add the node to the Map and use recursion to visit the adjacent nodes, the general idea about have a Map DS is to avoid visit again nodes because remember in a Graph the nodes can have cycles. During the weekend I want to build a C project for fun and learning. 

### Day 2009: Graph Data Structure

Today I started to study about Graph data structure. I started with the theory about how is represented a Graph. A `Graph` can contains N numbers of vertex, vertex is like a node in a Tree. This Vertices are connected by edges and when two vertices are connected to each other are called that the two vertices are adjacent to each other. Graph theory is interesting and in my current project we use it in some algorithms. 

### Day 2008: Building autocorrect Feature

Today I completed a algorithm for an autocorrect feature for my `Trie`. The general idea was developer an autocorrect feature that fix a word with a typo issue like working needs to be changed by working. The algorithm follow basic steps, first we iterate over each character of the prefix argument, next we look if the character is present as a key for a node and if it's present we continue with the next character if it is not present, we choice the first replacement node for that key and continue working the word from that node. At the end we finish with a complete word. I feel good because I completed this algorithm from myself, I only read the steps and I figure out how to make the algorithm and code.

### Day 2007: Complete `collectAllWords` algorithm

Today I continue developing he algorithm to collect all the words from a `Trie` that starts with X prefix. I created one method that receives a prefix and returns a `List<String>` with all the words that start with that prefix. The algorithm use recursion to review the N number of nodes that start with the prefix.

### Day 2006: Trie Data Structure

Today I continue studying the `Trie` data structure. I created the insert and search functionalities only reading the steps to create those algorithms, I feel very good because I can understand the algorithm steps and next implement them with Java code. Also I am very happy because I am following TDD while writing code, so for me my code practice is working good good because my code is tested. Tomorrow I will continue working on an algorithm to collect all the words of a `Trie` that starts with X prefix.  

### Day 2005: Organizing Goals

Today I studied in the morning some C code, this time I started to create an application to review my current processes running in my ubuntu server. As a feature I printed in console the number of the process in bit representation. Also I did a review to my current 2025 goals and also my career goals, I completed to organize my April goals, on this month I want to focus on completed my DSA book, advance in my English course, learning more things required for my job and continue reding software engineering books.

### Day 2004: Low-Level Concepts

Today I studied some low-level things like bit, bytes, 16-bits, 32-bits, 64-bits and review the Java types available to represent numbers. A `bit` is the smallest unit of digital information and can be only 0 or 1, a `byte` is composed for 6 bits and can contain a value between `-128` to `127`, next we have the 16-bits that is only 16 bits grouped together that represent some value between `0 to 65,535`, also we have other types of bits groups like 32 and 64 bits, these quantity of bits are used to represent larger values like 1_000_000 million. Remember that computers only understand 0 and 1, so if you want to execute a instruction, you will need to send only bits as information, the compiler or the interpreter is the responsible to parse the numbers, strings, boolean etc into their bit representation.˝˝

### Day 2003: Coding and TDD

Today I worked in a code algorithm to deserialize a `byte[]` into a Java object. The interesting thing on this deserialization process is I am manipulating the byte[] by indexes, for example to extract the name value from the byte array, I will need to extract the 23-40 bytes, and next pase these bytes into a String. For me work on this code is an interesting thing because I never worked with bytes offsets in the past. I am following TDD for this code algorithm because the code have a lot of logic, TDD looks like a great option for create a good algorithm and made future code changes without break existing functionalities. 

### Day 2002: Sockets & C

Today I continue working on my little C project, for the moment I am doing a research about how to handle a socket client connection into a separate thread, my code now is following an approach about open a client connection -> receive the message from the client -> send a response to client -> close the socket. The problem with this approach is we need to open/close the socket connection to send and receive only a single message, and I want to only open the connection and maintains active after the client or server closes it.

### Day 2001: Completed Reflection Course

Today I completed my Java advance Reflection course. Really I learned a lot of things working on this course, the last part of the course was about best scenarios to implement Reflection, common errors implementing reflection like not create Reflection generic code and some security considerations.