Day 1249-1253 Traveling
I need to travel to my work these days, my work is far away from my home, but the experience to work with my teammates face to face is amazing, I really want to go to the office one day each week. Well I can continue with book lecture, learning Scala and Apache Spark.

Day 1248 Python Scripting
Today I do some Python scripting only for fun, I create a script that delete some records from a database and update others documents, maybe in the weekend I rewrite this scripts but with Groovy or Scala, I love JVM programming languages and well Python is very good, but writing code without types is a little pain.

Day 1247 Improving Myself
Today I dedicate a great part of my free time reading the 5 AM club book, The book have a some parts like the So Good They Can't Ignore You, great advices about focus in one thing (Programming especially in Java/JVM), the advice is truth, we have only a little free portion of our day to do the things that impact our lives/profession. Well, tomorrow I continue to coding in JVM programming languages. I love the JVM.

Day 1246 Working with Containers
Today I try to do a crazy thing, I try to connect two local RabbitMQ servers using a ubuntu server that runs inside a Docker container how the man-in-middle, but I cannot achieve this, I have some problems with certificates that I can fixed, but the idea is use openssl tool to build the bridge between this two servers. I cannot achieve my goal but I learn a lot about TLS, AMQP and Openssl.

Day 1245 Strategy Design Pattern
Today I practice how works the strategy design pattern in Python with TDD technique with a basic program, the goal is to save a text file in SFTP server or S3 AWS bucket. We have the two logics to save the file, the method is selected by an argument passed through the CLI example --save=sftp or --save=s3. I am learning a lot of things with the project, specially testing in Python.

Day 1241-1242-1243-1244 Continue My journey in the Security Engineering
In the weekend I continue reading the security engineering book, also I start to read the 5 a.m. club book, the book is amazing, today I apply some concepts learned in the book in my daily work and I feel more focused on my work daily activities. I continue to practice Scala in the weekend continue reading the Scala for the impatient book, I do the exercises in the book using TDD techniques, I learn Scala and Testing at the same time.

Day 1240 Continue Reading
Today I continue reading the Security Engineering book, this books is large to read, but I am learning a lot of security concepts and I love the real world examples that has.

Day 1239 Jupyter Notebook
Today I was practice Python using Jupyter netbook reading and filtering some CSV files, I want to learn how to apply data analysis to CSV files and how to use Python to read for example a database and update the data to do more flexible in the way in which we can analyze the database using queries.

Day 1238 PERT Methodology
I read about this methodology when I read the Clean Coder book, today I need to review again because don't remember how to estimate software tasks good. I have some bad estimations in the work and I need to fix this.

Day 1235-1236-1237 Continue Reading
Today and the weekend I advance in my reading of the Security Engineering book, I have good progress in the book, I was practice a lot of coding in Python with some exercises. Python is a very good language, but some developers write in bad way Python code. Please add type in python methods/functions always and create more DTOs to work with data.

Day 1234 Working with Cache
Today I need to work with data storage in Cache, this cache is built with a short period of time and when the program finishes the process needs to be destroyed. In the weekend I will try to build the same exercise, but this time I will use a Redis database rather than save the data in Java objects.

Day 1233 Stress
Today I have a stressful day in the work, we have some deadlines and we need to complete one very important activity in a short period of time. Well, I need to review the next books again software craftsmanship and clean coder, because some of this problem or stress is created with my capacity, how software developer some deadlines are impossible to complete without work extra hours and work extra hours is don't an option. I need to learn how say No and how to attack the problems in a intelligent way, how handle annoying situations with other to avoid it.

Day 1232 Secure Queries
Today I have learned about how to design a private/secure for example with sensitive information, this information needs to be anonymized to work correctly. The problem is that you can set the three rule for the database that only permit queries that search registries in groups of three or more target registries, but techniques how aggregation attack and characteristic formula can do your database design useless. I never thought is this type of problems in my life how as a programmer.

Day 1231 Local Environment
Today I notice that do your code that depends on a database or a server thinking to replace these dependencies for example with docker containers that run in your local machine is great. The problem with developed in a development environment is that you attach your code to work only in the development environment. Mock for example a database in the development process is important. Test Driven Development is your best friend in these cases.

Day 1128-1229-1230 Learning Security
On the weekend we continue reading the Security Engineering book I have a great progress in the book. Monday I improve my English and continue reading also today I start to use ChatGPT while write code, ChatGPT help to create testing and give me ideas about what I do, coding using ChatGPT is funny.

Day 1227 Learning Scala
Today I have a free day in my work, the whole day I have learned Scala, I start to read the Scala for the impatient book. The book is great and Scala is a great language to learn to have a lot of similitude with Python. I want to learn Scala with Apache spark, this is the idea.

Day 1226 Fault Tolerance and Failure Recovery in Security
Today I studied a high-level view of the fault tolerance and failure recovery for the security, thinking is these two topics but whit the Security in mind is different to have the focus only for the Microservice world. Is amazing for example you service recover from a failure but when the service is recovered all the data continue correct? You service have the correct state? I see that the banks need a special care with these type of issues that can be occur in any time.

Day 1225 Security in Distributed Systems
Today I study how works the security in the distributed systems. I know the CAP theorem, but I never thoght this CAP problem apply to the security. For example the user have the correct permissions right now but a few moment his not have the permissions, but he can do the activity, yes this is a big problem. Well I continue studying this chapter of the book with a special attention because I love the Microservices.

Day 1224 Happy Valentine's Day Programmer's
I continue reading my Security Engineering book and do some exercises with Python.

Day 1223 Access Controls and Security Concerns
Today I was learning about how Android, IOs and windows manage your access controls, now understood why is the reason that the people says that MacOS is more secure than Windows and Android.

Day 1220-1221 Reading and Study English
I keep reading the Security Engineering book, I start the access control part, it's interesting how access control is managed in Linux. I also practice TDD with Python building a CLI project

Day 1219 Secure Communication Protocols
Today I have learn about different types of secure communication protocols. Finally I can understand a little the TLS protocol, this book have a lot of math formulas, if you can understand these formulas you can understand the protocol.

Day 1218 Hash Functions and Cypher Block
Today I learn more about Security,mI learn what is a cypher block, different types of hash functions and I gain a little knowledge how works secure protocols like SSH and SSL. Cryptography really is a hard topic to study.

Day 1217 Changing the way in which I Study
I finish reading the make it stick book, this book changes my habits of study and learning new technologies in coding in a great way. All of this time I'm learning some concepts in the wrong way, today I understand what is the reason that I can read a book or article and the next day I forget the content. Also, I continue learning about security Engineering.

Day 1215 Great Weekend
In Mexico we had a large weekend because the Monday is Mexican holiday, I continue reading the Security Engineering book, but I start to read the Make it Stick book, I discovery this book in a Python YouTube channel. This book teach how you must study if you like to remember the important concepts in any book, course, topic, etc. When I was start to read this book some thoughts in my mind do a click. Well I need to start to apply this knowledge when finish to read it.

Day 1213 Big Effort's
Today I continue to practice coding with Python and pandas, I use pandas library to create CSV reports and JSON objects. This days I practice a lot with manipulate CSV files. I had problems with Java and Apache Spark , I need to explore more Apache Spark.

Day 1212 Multitasking
Today I was look for information about do multitasking. I notice that when I do X thing my brain is thinking in another thing, and I cannot retain right the information. I look for help in the web and I want to read a book about this problem.

Day 1211 Security in the Authentication Protocols
Today I learned about authentication protocols, the weakness in this protocols and how the tech industry have a fighting to avoid that the hackers break this protocols.

Day 1210 Complete Hard Task
Today I achieve a great goal, I can finish a hard task maybe is not very hard but the things that I use is new for me.I feel like in a videogame when I kill the final boss.

Day 1209 Building New Things
Today I was learned how create a CSV file with data get from a database, I do the code with Python but I have some problems to try to add multiple behaviors in the code without duplicated it. Tomorrow I use Java or Kotlin to do the same exercise and check if the best option.

Day 1207 Encrypt Data
Today I was learning about how encrypt JSON files, I try to do this with Java but I have a lot of problems trying to read the private keys. Finally I can achieve my task using Python and a cryptography library. I have this doubt because I am reading the Security Engineering book and we'll encrypt the plain text is a good practice.

Day 1206 Security Engineering
I start to read the book Security Engineering due to I have some lacks about these security topics. The start of this book is amazing it have a great introduction and looks like that is a book that you can read without use a computer. I need a break about JVM, in this weekend I want to practice Python. Use pandas for some dummy project and unit testing with python. The simplicity of Python is grea.

Day 1205 Recover Motivation
Yesterday I have a bad day in the work, but I am responsible for this situation, in these moments you need to stay quiet and review your ideas. I promise me that this type of situation don't happen again. I am looking for a book that can help me to works these concerns. Well, this will my next book to read.

Day 1204 DevSecOps
Today I was learned about what is DevSecOps and how they can be applied into the development lifecycle. I was not know that this methodology is for example different from DevOps, we'll have some equals things but they have very different goals.

Day 1203 Finish the Book
Today I finish reading the Java Concurrency in Practice book, this book is the hardest book that I read really is a big headache. The concurrency is a hard topic but is a pleasure having big headaches because I am learning new things.

Day 1201-1202 Concurrency and Testing in Python
Today I learn how to mock dependencies in Python testing, I have a class that use a database, for the unit testing I need to mock this database. The code to create the instance of the database is placed inside the class constructor, and I cannot mock the database. I need to add the database connection how dependency and learn how mock. I learn a great lesson today. I develop this code only thinking that is a little script and not required unit testing. Great error for my lucky, the code grows, and I have a lot of chaos with try to fix the issues that I discover. I need to learn that apply TDD always is the fastest way to create code.